----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MURCHIE'S TEA & COFFEE:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/05/murchies-tea-coffee.html

No. 1

<2010-05-28 Fri> It used to be that I had to way 10-15 minutes to be
   served. This last time things seem more expedite. Espresso is ok,
   but not their speciality. Its real strength is tea, of which they
   serve a large variety. Good way to sample tea before buying it next
   door.  Lots of tables inside, and uniquely, large number of well
   priced pastries and cakes that you really have to concentrate to
   say no.

Internet: no.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BON ROUGE

No. 2

<2010-05-28 Fri> Good food and one of the best deals in town (their
daily specials are 10 dollars). My favourite is the coq au van
(Thursdays); Fridays steak will fill you for the rest of the day
(quality varies from decent to good). I like their cedar wrapped
salmon ($14). On a sunny day the patio is great. The restaurant stays
open for lunch later than almost any other in the area. 

One of my regular lunch stops.

Verdict: Highly recommended

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:HABIT COFFEE & CULTURE:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/05/habit-coffee-culture.html

No. 3

<2010-05-28 Fri> Perhaps the best coffee in town (or close to
it). Nice, large and comfy place. One of my favourites.

Internet: no.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TAPA BAR RESTAURANT:Take out

No. 4

<2010-05-29 Sat> A good place for dinner (their prices are the same,
which makes it a bit pricey for lunch) and they don't close from
opening to closing time. During the end of the week, the place is
usually packed. It is a better place is you go with somebody else.  My
favourite is their pesto pizza.

Verdict: Recommended with reservations (A good destination for a
          large group of people, but avoid if on your own (they are
          much better options around).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:VENUS SOPHIA TEAROOM, COFFEEBAR & CAFE:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/05/venus-sophia-tearoom-coffee-bar-and.html

No. 5

<2010-05-29 Sat> I am impressed. This a huge step from the Mokka House
that was here before. The place is a very welcoming environment, with
real roses on each table. The place exudes beauty in a way no other
coffee shop in Victoria does. It caters more to the tea crowd but the
coffee is very good. Their pastries are a bit expensive, and they also
serve deli-type food. I am going to become a regular.

Internet: no.

Verdict: Recommended. This is a hard area for a coffee shop. Lots of
  competition. There are at least 6 or 7 in a two blocks radio. I
  would say, come and check it out, you might like it or not. The
  coffee might be a notch below Habit, but good nonetheless.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RED FISH BLUE FISH

No. 6

<2010-05-29 Sat> Location, location, location. The fate of this place
would be different if it wasn't for its setting. I ordered two
different tacos (or tacones, as they call them) that got my mouth
watering: chipotle shrimp and adobo fish.  What a disappointment! The
shrimp were cold machine pealed baby shrimp with nothing on them. The
chipotle sauce was the mayonnaise used on the tortilla (the flour
tortilla was the only thing that impressed me: fresh, and warmed with
a grill). The fish tacos did a bit better (they reminded me of a cod
stew) but were drown by the flavour of the cole slaw they use as a
garnishing (why put more cole slow when they serve it with a side of
cole slaw)?  The only saving grace is that they sell each taco
individually (6 and 5 each). By the way, the roll them into cones,
which makes them difficult to eat and makes them look bigger than they
are (and they can put most of the prime filler towards the front of
the cone). Definitely only a place to have a quick snack while in the
area but I rather go to Hernandez or Jeff's Pig BBQ Joint for better
food. Why is it one of the top rated places in Trip Advisor? Because
tourists (and some locals) love to eat by the water. It also
highlights the way populism works: a person that goes to this place
has completely different expectations than one going to Brasserie
L'Ecole; I suspect that for many, Red Fish Blue Fish is less about
food than a cheap meal by the ocean. Reviews need context, and that is
why editors of information will continue to be needed.

By the way: this is a "take out" place with some seating. It has
absolutely no service.

Verdict: Avoid with reservations (unless you want a quick snack in a
   picturesque location)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:JEFF'S PIG BBQ JOINT:Take out
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/05/jeffs-pig-bbq-joint.html

No. 7

<2010-05-29 Sat> A hole in the wall, this is tiny establishment serves
simple, yet tasty meat sandwiches. Their star is the pulled pork
sandwich and it does not disappoint. Vegetarians, stay away from it.

Take out place, although it has some space for standing up eating.

Verdict: Recommended (one of the best snack, take out places in town,
          but not for vegetarians)

Cost: 5.00. Full day pricing.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GREEN LEAF VIETNAMESE BISTRO
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/green-leaf-vietnamese-bistro.html

No. 8

<2010-05-30 Sun> How to put a Vietnamese restaurant within the context
of other similar restaurants in Victoria? Because I usually order pho
in the other I decided to do the same. I wasn't disappointed. In fact,
the pho was better than Pho Vuong and perhaps even better than Pho Vy
(although one think I really like about Pho Vy is that they have a
'spicy sauce' option). Would I come back to it? Definitely. The prices
are very good, they open 7 days a week from 11:30 to 10 PM (I
think). As I was leaving the table next had ordered quail  and it
looked very good. I'll have to try them next time.

Verdict: As good as the best Vietnamese in town.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KOFFI:Coffee

No. 9

<2010-05-30 Sun> Nice coffee shop in the middle of Fernwood. The
coffee is good, their pastries are from Daniel's, and their tables are
comfortable with plenty of space. It has a nice neighbourhood feeling.
Definitely a place to get some work done. The location is a bit odd
for me; otherwise I'd be a regular.

Verdict: Recommended. 

Internet: Yes, but you have to ask for the key.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SEN ZUSHI

No. 10

<2010-05-31 Mon> I am a regular, what else can I say? I typically have
lunch here once or twice a week and it is the most frequent place I go
for dinner. It is good value for the money. Is it perfect? I don't
think so. Every time I go through the menu I am hoping to see
something new, something exciting, that refreshes my view of the
restaurant. Sadly, that rarely happens (the last time was the addition
of awabi nigiri for few days). On the other hand their tuna and salmon
are always very good, and I absolutely adore their hokke (but I know
most people don't find small fish--with plenty of bones--appealing. 

Verdict: One of my regular lunch stops.

Cost: 12.50 + tip. Lunch prining.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PRIME STEAKHOUSE AND LOUNGE

No. 11

<2010-06-01 Tue> I had passed by frequently, but never being tempted
to go inside. The only times I have visited this location was with
friends who wanted to dine here (and in its previous
incarnation). Part of the reason is that it feels overpriced: entrees
are 15 or 16 dollars, a step up from similar destinations (Il
Terrazzo, Pescatore's, Bon Rouge--across the street) and at the level
of Zambri's (which is one of my favorite destinations). Furthermore, I
am not a meat eater, so take my words with a grain of salt. So I came
with reservations. I ordered their seared tuna, which is not a bad
dish. I like albacore tuna, and this was cooked the way I like it
(barely seared). Its crust was good, but the entire dish felt like a
diner meal: tuna on top of a bed of risotto (which was salty) with a
slab of wasabi on the side (is this sashimi? I didn't notice it until
I almost put it in my mount), and some vegetables (the carrots were a
bit hard) and the most striking of all: a section of corn in a
hub. This is, according to its prices, a high end restaurant, yet it
serves me finger food? It just felt wrong. The amount was large too,
just on the edge of what I consider an appropriate size. Having
discussed this with a chef, it seems that expensive restaurants feel
that they have to provide you with a lot of food so you feel that the
price was worth it.

Will I come back? That is ultimately the most important question. In
its price bracket and type, I would say is not doing well. Perhaps I'd
have to visit again to get a better perspective of the place.

Finally, my waiter seem to be a bit upset. She wasn't rude or
anything, but every time she stopped by my table she had an expression
as if she would have preferred to be doing something else. At other
places I feel comfortable, here that makes me feel unwanted. Furthermore,
the music! I am starting to go crazy! (they play a radio station from
Memphis). Those are small details that affect our dining experience
beyond what the food offers. The place is almost empty (only two more
tables have people).

Cost: 16.80 + tip. Lunch pricing.

Verdict: Avoid. Walk across the street to Bon Rouge instead.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CAFE CEYLON

No. 12

<2010-06-02 Wed> I haven't been here for a long time. Victoria does
not excel with its Indian restaurants, and Sri Lankan food is a good
alternative. 

The place has a relaxing feeling, and it is half full at lunch time
today.

I asked for the House Special. It is a beautiful dish. It comes on top
of a section of a banana leaf and it contains bright yellow, orange
and red. The smell of the leaf combined with the curry fills your
nostrils and makes your mouth water. 

Until you take the first byte. The chicken feels overcook, in fact, it
feels old. I know, curries have to be prepared in advanced, but it
kills the amazing food experience that started at the eyes (perhaps
lamb would be a much better option, I have to wonder). The papadum is
slightly rancid and not totally crispy. The meal started in such a
high-note, but ends in disappointing. Was it worth it? I am not sure
yet. Like one Japanese food reviewer wrote, "we eat with our eyes
too". It is the second time that I order it, and I barely remember
that it was dry the first time too. I feel tempted to give this place
another chance.

With respect to price, most entrees at lunch time are between 12-16,
hence middle-towards-upper end of the spectrum at lunch time (for this
area).

Verdict: Undecided

Cost: 16.60 + tip. Lunch pricing.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KADALIMA'S BAKERY:Coffee

No. 13

<2010-06-02 Wed> Just outside Victoria, this bakery offers a large
collections of cookies and pastries to go with a coffee or tea. The
coffee is above average (a bit bitter for me, and lacks body, but
drinkable). The cookies, however, make up for it.

In this area this is the coffee shop I prefer, but they close too early.

Verdict: Recommended for the area.

Internet: No

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:STARBUCKS COFFEE CO. #132:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/starbucks-cook-st-village.html

No. 14

<2010-06-03 Thu> Three large coffee shops in an 3 block area, and all
of them bland. Starbucks has average coffee, but at least it is
uniform. It is a large space, its tables are very comfortable, and
because it controls the Internet access via a username, it provides
the best public bandwidth in town, but only for 2 hrs every
24hrs. Regarding the tables/chairs: they are just the perfect high to
work with a laptop, and the size is just right if you don't have to
have open books and a computer, otherwise it might feel crowded.  

Finally, one of the few coffee shops that opens late every day (in
fact, that is true for those in this area).

In other words: one of the best places to work in town, but at the
cost of average coffee.

By the way, it is interesting to compare the clientele of the three
coffee shops. Quite dramatic. 


Internet: Yes, limited to two hours, and requires registration.


Verdict: Recommended for the area (average coffee, but great place to
  work).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MY THAI CAFE

No. 15

<2010-06-03 Thu> Victoria lacks a good, signature Thai
restaurant. Although we have several ones, none of them raises. They
tend to attack the cheap section of the market rather than offer us
the greatness of that the Thai cuisine can be. My Thai Cafe sits
towards the bottom of the pile. The lunch special was nothing special,
in fact, it felt more like comfort food (without its own character,
both in presentation and flavour). Of the Thai restaurants in the
area, I think I prefer Sookjai Thai, but not by much. If you can, walk
to a bit farther and have lunch at Baan Thai, it is better, although
the prices are one or two dollars higher for the lunch specials.

Verdict: Avoid

Cost: Around 10 + tip. Lunch pricing.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BROUGHTON STREET DELI

No. 16

<2010-06-04 Fri> After some disappointments in the last days, I
finally found a place that makes this quest worth it. 

- Pleasant surprise
- Good sandwich at a good price
- Not exactly Schwart's, but good nonetheless
- Very nice place

Verdict: Recommended with reservations. If you are a deli person
   (which I am not) this is a very good destination.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CAFE MELA AT THE BELVEDERE:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/cafe-mela.html

<2010-06-04 Fri>

- Feels like a tea house, 
- Small, some people might call it cozy, but lots of seating outside in a small "plaza"
- Good coffee
- Pastries from Daniel's
- Short opening ours Mon-Fri 8-4, Sat 10-

Verdict: Recommended if you are in the area, with reservations. In a
  sunny day, it is an excellent destination. Otherwise you might not
  find a place to sit (and you will feel bad for holding a table if
  your objective is to stay for some time, as I'd expect). You can
  also buy take-out wraps from Daniel's.

No Internet.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:THAI BISTRO

No. 17

<2010-06-05 Sat> Having visited My Thai the day before, I felt it was
a good way to compare them. I had the same meal (red curry), and it
was clear that Thai Bistro is superior. Their red curry is
tasty. Overall a significantly better product, at a cheaper price (I
paid 8.75 +tip). 

It was however, a bit of a strange experience: I came at 12:30
(Saturday) and was the only customer. The business next door was
blooming, though.

Cost: 8.75 + tip for a lunch special. Lunch pricing.

Verdict: Neutral. If you really want Thai, go for it. It is as good or
  better than most in town (that does not mean much though, see my
  review of My Thai). It is also a cheap destination.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LEGACY ART GALLERY & CAFE:Coffee

No. 18

<2010-06-05 Sat> First, let me state my bias. This is a University of
Victoria cafe. Having said that, I believe this is the best secret in
town. The coffee is some of the best in the area (way above the three
coffee shops within one block), but it is also a great place to be
in. 

This place was created originally to showcase one of the collections
of art of the University, and the Cafe is a side effect (trying to
make some money at the same time, because the gallery is free). It
used to be run by Swan's, but the coffee was horrible.

For some reason the place continues to be relatively empty (although
some days it almost full). It does not open Monday or Tuesday, and
closes early (5 PM).

Other than that, the place is great: a clean, large, open space, with
art paintings on the walls to admire. Nice, comfortable chairs to
lounge (but not to ideal to work on, although not bad) and window
seats to look at people pass by. This is one of my favourite places in
town. I just wished they would open daily and close much later.

Cost: 2.75 for a double espresso.

Internet: Maybe. It "appears" to have free Internet, but I am not 100%
   sure.

Verdict: A must visit, if not for the coffee, for the collection. In
   fact, you don't have to pay anything to have a look.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SUBWAY-Cook:Take out
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/subway-cook-st-village.html

No. 19

<2010-06-05 Sat> It is a Subway, what else can I say? Perhaps that
there are not that many options for a good cheap sandwich around. If
you are really hungry, get an 8" before getting into a coffee shop
around. They are much better.

Verdict: As good as it gets in the area.

Cost: 4.85

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SANTIAGO'S CAFE

No. 20

<2010-06-06 Sun> I haven't been there for a long time, but for some
reason the last time was also a rainy day. Siting by the large
windows, makes these days particularly comfortable. And there are the
crayons. A full basket of them, and an paper that covers the table to
write in. You can let your imagination fly.

I decided to order Chipotle Prawns, to which you have to add the side
dish. After a bit I discovered I was missing bread, so I asked for
some (even if I had to pay for it--which I did) and was asked if I
preferred tortillas, to which I immediately agreed. Hence this was
more like: build-your-own lunch kind of thing.

The dish was good, but had an acetic flavour (I think it was sundried
tomatoes marinated in vinegar, but I might be wrong), and the basmati
rice was slightly overcooked (but very edible). Certainly one lunch
that I'd be happy to make at home, but not one that woes me. The
tortillas were nicely grilled (but too many, 4 huge tortillas!).  I
enjoyed my lunch.

The main downside is that the cumulative cost of all the "extras"
amounted to the largest bill I have paid so far, and puts in the
territory of the expensive restaurants. This actually shows how good
deals some restaurants are: for 17 dollars I get a great lunch at some
of the top restaurants of the city (where these extras are included,
bread and side dish). 

But to be fair, the tortillas were not really needed, in such case the
bill would have been only 15.65, still in the same price category.
Given that the food was not perfect, its makes the restaurant too
expensive for what it offers. On the other hand, the food is good
enough that I don't mind visiting, if I have to.

Update: It finally settled in. Restaurants are roughly divided into two
categories based upon if they charge a different price at lunch or
not. Santiago's is one of those that charges the same price
nonetheless. Hence, for a lunch destination feels pricey, but for a
dinner destination is a good deal. On the other hand, it is also
explains why they serve soo much food at these places. From now on I'll
classify them based on that.

Verdict: Only if you are in the area (and subject to more research of
such area), or if you want a very late lunch.

Price: 18.74 + tip (15.65 without the extra tortillas). Full day pricing.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KADALIMA'S BAKERY:Take out

No. 21

<2010-06-07 Mon> I had to get takeout and decided to try its
lasagna. I don't really like takeout but had no option. The lasagna
was not bad nor memorable, but I liked the croissant. It was not the
butter-loaded Daniel's but more crumbly and dense. I sort of liked the
balance. for a change. I'll like to try them again with a coffee.

Verdict (takeout): Recommended with reservations. For takeout nothing
   like their pastries. Their food? A bit pricey for what you get.

Price: 10.00

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SUBWAY-1964 Fort:Take out
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/subway-1964-fort-st.html

No. 22

<2010-06-08 Tue> I needed a quick sandwich and I find subway to be
reliable. I am also starting to understand that I only need 6" for a
lunch. Not more.

Verdict: Recommended with reservations: In this area, your choices for
take out are not that many. You can go into Safeway or eat here.

Price: 8.05 for a foot-long, with was too much for lunch.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BAAN THAI RESTAURANT--Oak bay

No. 23
<2010-06-21 Mon>

Not technically in Victoria, it is just across the border, in Oak Bay.

I got tired of the Lunch specials at Baan Thai (they are all made with
chicken, and haven't changed in years). But after having visited many
of the Thai restaurants in town I realize that they are not bad at
all.

Their food is not stellar, neither bad. I would say that if you want
Thai food this is a reliable destination. Be warned, the place gets
full.

Verdict: There are only two places I'd recommend in the area, and
this is one of them. Price is reasonable, food good. A solid place to
eat, but I would not go out of my way to eat here.

Cost: 10 + tip. Lunch pricing.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SOD-SAI THAI RESTAURANT
<2010-06-22 Tue>

No. 24

This is my first time in this place. It is a large and it most of its
tables are full. Sod-Sai has a very large lunch menu, with many
possibilities, but it is a tad pricier than the rest of the thai
restaurants.

The food was ok. The soup was chicken stock with a lot of fresh
mushrooms thrown on top, but few vegetables otherwise.  The meat
(beef) was not very good, and the curry was a bit watery, but
tasty. The best part were the rolls: nicely fried and crispy.

This visit reinforces what I have mentioned in the past: Victoria does
not have a restaurant that showcases what Thai food can be about.

I think I'll visit it again, and offer something more unique to this
restaurant.

Verdict: Only if you are in the area and want Thai food. At this
  point I'd prefer the Green Leaf next door.

Cost: 12.50 (included the soup and appetizer) + tip. Lunch pricing.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SIAM THAI RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/siam-thai.html

No. 25

<2010-06-23 Wed>
It is hard to take the restaurants in the downtown core seriously. Are
they catering to the tourist, who might never come back, or to the
loyal customers who will fill tables days after day?

I have come to Siam many times, never really paying attention to its
food. Having visited several Thai restaurants in a row, I can say that
this is one of the best in Victoria (at least at Lunch time).

To be methodological I ordered what I have been ordering: lunch
special of red curry. The soup was tasty, but had a Chinese influence,
and was by no means Thai. The entree showed the same: a bunch of
stir-fried vegetables (quite good, indeed, and healthier and more
filling than a fried roll). The rice was sticky, again, showing
Chinese influence. The chef, I reckon, must be Chinese.

The curry, however, was the best I have been served so far. Full of
flavour and thick, and nicely presented.

This place offers the full menu at lunch time (I wonder if that affect
the quality of those dishes that are not specials).

Verdict: The Chinese influence would spoil the Thai experience, but
  otherwise, a good choice for lunch.

Cost: 10.45 + tip.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MOKA HOUSE-Cook:Coffee

No. 26

<2010-06-24 Thu>

Their espresso sucks, but the view from the window is always a
treat. The "patio" is a good way to enjoy a not-very cold day.

Moka has many food options, but nothing worthwhile though, and offers
ice cream cones.

The bench along the windows is nice to work on a laptop, but the
tables not as much. The outside chairs are plastic and not very
comfortable. Table-vs-table the coffee shop across the street wins.

But in terms of "cool" factor, Moka is where the hip meet. 

Verdict: if you are interested in the coffee skip it. If you want the
view or the ambiance, it is better than Starbucks. In terms of tables
and comfort I give the edge to Starbucks. Internet here is unlimited,
while it is 2 hrs (login required) across the street. Starbucks
provides much better bandwidth, though.

Internet: Yes

Cost: 1.75 for a single espresso
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ROSIE'S DINER
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/rosies-dinner.html

No. 27

<2010-06-24 Thu>I like Rosie's. It is feels like an honest place that serves simple
food during most of the day (I think they are open from 8 to 8, almost
every day). Their tacky painting of Marylin, Dean, Elvis and Marlon
that includes the name of the Diner is one of its peculiarities (Dean
and Marylin are hard to recognize), along with strong colour palette
that makes this place unique in its own way. I kind of like it.

The place also feels homey. It is clear that there are relationships
made between the frequent customers and the staff.

I ordered a halibut burger with the soup of the day (seafood
chowder). 

When my burger arrived the fish was battered, while I expected
grilled. The menu gives the option of one or the other. And this is
one of those small details that separates good servers: I wasn't asked
which one I wanted, and presented the battered one. Ok, fine. Perhaps
my mistake. The fish felt frozen, nothing to write home about, and the
chowder was inedible. Perhaps burgers and eggs are more their speciality.

There are very few options in this area that are open the whole day,
that gives Rosie's Diner an edge. But the food leaves to be
desired. Too bad, I really wanted to like it.

Verdict: Only if you eating outside regular lunch hours, and only if
in the area. 

Cost: 10.45 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SEN ZUSHI:Dinner
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/sen-zushi_05.html

<2010-06-24 Thu>

Warning. This is a dinner review. I am a regular for dinner at Sen
Zushi, but perhaps I have been a regular for too long. I am getting a
bit tired of the menu.

That doesn't mean the restaurant is bad. On the contrary, the tuna and
salmon sashimi were delicious (as usual), the tempura perfect (I loved
the fish tempura). There were some downsides: the miso soup was way
too diluted (a frequent problem) and the some of the unagi had a
slight taste of chlorine.

The best demonstration of its popularity is how difficult it is to
get a table some evenings. 

Verdict: A good option for Japanese at dinner time.

Cost: approx 40 per person + tip (we ate like pigs)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BAAN THAI RESTAURANT--Oak bay
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/baan-thai-oak-bay_05.html

<2010-06-25 Fri> Had to have a quick lunch. I ordered the L6 lunch
special and it was a good meal (it had been recommended in the past
one of the waitresses as her favourite). Everything was nicely cooked.
Pleasant visit. What I expect from it.

I soo much wished they were running specials that showcased what the
chef/cook can do. But for the sake of uniformity (with its parent
downtown) they offer _exactly_ the same every day.

Verdict: I keep my recommendation: a solid place to eat, one of the
best Thai in Victoria (at lunch time), and one of the only two places
to eat in the area.

Cost: 10.24 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GREEN LEAF VIETNAMESE BISTRO
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/great-leaf-vietnamese-bistro.html

No. 28

<2010-06-26 Sat> I visited again, with friends, and my view hasn't
changed. Good and tasty pho makes it the best Vietnamese of the area. It was our
final destination because they stay open the entire day (a big plus!)

Also, I'd rather go here than the Thai next door.

Verdict: A solid contender for best Vietnamese in town, and a good
   choice in an area full of restaurants.

Cost: This visit was not representative.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CAFFE ARTIGIANO:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/caffe-artigiano.html

No. 29

<2010-06-26 Sat>
Buried in the Lobby of a hotel it is easy to miss. Besides, it has
strong competition from next door (MURCHIE'S TEA & COFFEE). I debated
on whether to go in, but my quest needs to be completed.

The place is very long and narrow. A lot of "bench" sits that look
uncomfortable. I order, as usual, a espresso.

What a surprise! A very, very, very good espresso, in fact, I place it
at the level of the best in town.

But the environment? I am not so sure. It feels dark and unwelcoming.

Verdict: Your decision should be based on what you want: the best
  coffee? a table to sit for a long time?  Then choose
  Artigiano. Better environment and choices of food or pastries? Next
  door.

Cost: 2.50 for espresso

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LITTLE THAI PLACE
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/little-thai.html

No. 30

<2010-06-28 Mon>

Mondays are tricky. Many restaurants stay closed. I have been
disappointed countless times when I arrive to a place that is
closed. Do they forget people have to eat every day of the week?
Little Thai is a reliable destination: it opens every day of the week.

There are two Little Thai in the region, one in Saanich and the other
in Cook St. I visited the one at Cook St. The waiters are friendly,
and tend to recognize me, which is always a nice feeling when I enter
a restaurant.

The menu is large: their dinner menu plus lunch specials, which are
very nicely priced.

To be consistent, I ordered (again!) red curry plus a soup
(optional). The soup is a contradiction: the tastiest broth of all the
Thai restaurants I have tried, but with chicken that was badly
overcooked.

I think of all the curries I have tried this is one of my favourite. It
is dense, tasty, a touch sweet and I like the addition of eggplant,
but it is not traditional: no green pepper, no bamboo shoots. It comes
with some green vegetables and rice. The rice was perfect.

This is a very popular take out destination.

Verdict: A good Thai. Best place (by far) in its area.

Cost: 11.50 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
SOOKJAI THAI RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/sookjai-thai.html

No. 31

<2010-06-29 Tue>

My first impression was: "wow, this place is full". I got the
last table available. I ordered the red curry
special (again). The soup was like many others I had had: almost
tasteless, but with a good portion of vegetables.

The rolls were well cooked: cripy not but not hard. The curry
looked good: thick, with a large proportion of vegetables and
chicken. The chicken was cooked well. Unfortunately it lacked
flavour.

The food is not bad, and I got tempted to come back and have
something different. It competes head on with Baan Thai, which is
one block away. It wins in number of options at lunch time. I
would be tempted to ask people why they prefer to come here
instead of Baan Thai, given that both are so close to each
other.

My pick? Baan Thai.

Verdict: Given its proximity to Baan Thai, I'd not pick it as my
first choice.

Paid: 10.45 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BAAN THAI RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/baan-thai.html


No. 32
<2010-06-30 Wed>

There are 7 Thai restaurants in town (2 with branches in Saanich). I
have tried the red curry of each of them. And the winner is Baan Thai
downtown.

Of course it is really difficult to compare one against another when I
ate them on different days. I have to rely on my memory, on the
ordering of the quality of these restaurants that I am building day by
day.

Baan Thai feels like a more up-scale restaurant than any of the others
(which probably is). It is a nice, bright environment, with quality
furniture, and good service. The restaurant was full when I arrived.

My opinion is that you won't be disappointed if you come here. I have
had most of the options in the menu, and they are all good (although
the pad thai is too large).

I have mentioned repeatedly that my main complain with this place is
its lack of options at lunch time (its menu hasn't changed in 9 years
I have lived in Victoria). I talked to a person who likes Baan Thai
and she said that she wants the menu to remain unchanged, so she can
always order the same. I think the solution is a "special of the
day".

Now I am tempted to come back at dinner time (or at least order take
out).

Unfortunately this visit is the last without GST. Starting tomorrow I
have a 7% inflation in the cost of my lunch :(

Verdict: The best Thai lunch in town, at one of the best prices. It is
  worth a detour compared to any of the other options. It is also the
  best restaurant in a this area. It will remain as one of my regular
  lunch destinations, particularly the downtown branch.

Cost: 10.24 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LEGACY ART GALLERY & CAFE:Coffee
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/06/legacy-art-gallery-cafe_30.html

<2010-06-30 Wed> What can I say about a coffee shop that includes a
gallery inside it?

I came to see the work by Bob St Cyr. Bob is a great and humble
guy. He has a small exhibit of pinhole photographs that really
intrigue me. I like their blurriness, and sense of timelessness.  I
liked his Cafe Conversations, perhaps because, as I write this, I live
daily what he portraits in them.

The coffee today gets a "good" ranking. 

Overall one of the best: a beautiful place, with two interesting and
worthwhile exhibits (one the photos of Bob the other Inuit sculpture).

Verdict: The art in it make it a must destination in every aspect;
 the coffee can be better in other places, but it is good.

Cost: 2.75 for espresso.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CORNERSTONE CAFE:Coffee

No. 33

<2010-06-30 Wed> Coffee shops in the old past used to be the focal
centers of the community. The bars were where people went to get
drunk, but coffee shops where people went to get the news and discuss
them.

Cornerstone feels like those old places. It is a community gathering
place. Own and operated by the Fernwood Community Centre, it takes its
social goals seriously. And it shows. This feels like the friendliest
coffee shop in town. Its siting it designed to socialize, even if you
are using your laptop pretending to be unaware of your surroundings.

There is frequent (free) music in the evenings, and it is also a
resource center for the community.

I wished more coffee shops were like this.

As if it wasn't enough, it has very good coffee and pastries from
Daniel's.

Verdict: One of the best coffee destinations in town.

Internet: yes
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SURA KOREAN RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/sura.html

No. 34

<2010-07-01 Thu> Have you ever eaten at a Korean Restaurant? Do
yourself a favour and try it. Sura seems to be the only Korean left in
town. I believe that is because we are not used to their food, and
don't know what to expect in their restaurants. This might explain
why, in the opinion of my Japanese friends, Koreans tend to open
Japanese instead of Korean restaurants.

I have never been disappointed in a Korean restaurant. Their soups
reminds me a lot some of the Mexican stews: based on bone, spicy,
always rich in flavour. 

But I also like the little plates they bring you along: potatoes,
kimchi, sprouts. And they are all included in the price of your main
meal. 

I recommend people to start with a bibimbap. Remember, you must mix
the egg with the rice as it is served.

It was my first time at Sura. The menu is beautiful to look at. I
could not make my mind, partially because I don't really know many
dishes.

I ordered a beef soup. I love it. It came on one of their thick clay
pots, and was boiling as served. I had to be careful to wait long
enough not to burn my tongue :( The temptation is too high to dive
in. It was labelled extra spicy, but I found it to be just
"Medium". Your mileage might vary.

In terms of value, I can't think of better places to have a complete
meal. The soup came from the "dinner" menu (which they offer at lunch
time) and it was a paltry 9.99 + tax. I was even offered more
appetizer dishes (I wish I knew their real name).

I forgot to mention, only one table had no Korean looking person (the
place is popular with Koreans).

Verdict: This place will become a regular destination for me, and can
   see it become one of my favourites. Other visits will tell. I like
   Korean food and that makes me biased. A steal at dinner time.

Cost: 11.14  + tip (yes, new tax :(

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:UNION PACIFIC COFFEE COMPANY: Coffee

No. 35

<2010-07-01 Thu> Now that I carry my own Internet connection with me I
am done frequently it. The place is inviting and cozy. It uses to be a
stable and the owners have done a great job maintaining its rustic
flavour.

But its tables are a bit in the uncomfortable size. On the other hand,
the tables are nice and large, which is very useful sometimes.

The coffee today as above average, and not worth recommending.

Verdict: Its Internet connection and nice building gives it slight
  edge. Come here for the net, but for the coffee there are better
  places.


Internet: yes

Cost: 2.18 (single espresso)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TAMAMI SUSHI JAPANESE RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/tamami-sushi.html

This place no longer exists.

Verdict: Defunct

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KAZ JAPANESE RESTAURANT

No. 36

<2010-07-02 Fri> 

The lunch started in a high note with a very nice
miso soup but quickly disintegrated into flavourless and soggy
tempura, one of the less interesting salads I have had in a long time
that had the dressing in the middle compartment of the bento (which
means I can't pour it), and fruit that look like it had been cut some
time ago and had no flavour either.

Definitely, I place to pass by. No surprise the customers look like
tourists.

Verdict: Avoid.

Cost: 13.20 +tip (2 items lunch special plus uni nigiri)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:JAPANESE VILLAGE RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/japanese-village.html

No. 37

<2010-07-05 Mon> I was glad that Japanese Village is one of the few
that opens on Monday. 

I have been here before, but never for lunch. For some reason I never
thought about this place for lunch.

As you enter, you are asked if you want tepan or sushi. I chose the
latter, to which this review applies.

My first impression was how small the lunch menu is. 4 options plus
individual sushi menu. I ordered the most expensive: Sushi and Tempura
Combo.

The shabu soup was interesting and flavourful. The tempura was good
too. But the sashimi and the sushi were just bland.  My rice was
covered with a thick curry that I didn't like or disliked. But I'd
have preferred my rice plain.

It wasn't a bad lunch, but I didn't feel it was worth the money. It is
a much better destination at dinner time.

Finally, they didn't have change for my bill, and to pay with my
credit card I had to go to the cashier. On the other hand I really
like that there are no-cellphone signs everywhere in the sushi area.

Verdict: Too expensive for what you get, there are better alternatives
not that far away (Zen Sushi).

Cost: 15.12 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SEOUL RESTAURANT

<2010-07-05 Mon> Replaced with 2 different restaurants.

Verdict: Defunct

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MUTSUKI-AN RESTAURANT
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/matsuki.html

No. 38

<2010-07-06 Tue> I haven't been at Matsuki-An for a while. Just
outside Victoria, this is one of the best Japanese restaurants at
lunch time. Perhaps the best.

Matsuki-An follows the Japanese tradition that a meal starts in our
eyes. Every dish is beautifully presented. While many restaurants
offer their specials in bento boxes (utilitarian presentation intended
for take out, not in-site eating in a decent restaurant) they use
elegant dishes, and superb organization in the plate to get you
excited before you give it the first bite.

And the food does not disappoint. One of the best miso soups--if not
the best--I had so far. The lunch special includes an avocado temaki
sushi made with rice paper rather than nori, and its dessert is a
profiterole; this shows, in my opinion, that the chef is not afraid of
trying to be innovate and be different than the rest. The flavours
were subtle, delicate, and delicious. The chef, by the way, is a
woman, and the waitress appears to be her daughter. It certainly has
the family business feeling.

Compared to most Japanese places in town, Matsuki-An feels above
them. It has better quality of ingredients, better presentation, and
more interesting dishes. The place is small, but bright and
welcoming. You might have to arrive early. They also like to close
exactly at 2:00, which means you have to arrive between 11:30 to
13:30, except for Friday and Sat. when they stay open the entire
afternoon. Even their dinner service ends early (they close at 7:00
PM).

Keep in mind that it is a bit expensive compared to others and the
portions are smaller.

I want to go back soon, to try other options in the menu. 

It does not open from Sun-Mon.

Verdict: One of the best places for lunch in Victoria. 

Paid: 14.00 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OSAKA SUSHI

No. 39

<2010-07-07 Wed> This is a relatively new restaurant in an area that
does not have many good options. I have always found this area to be a
bit strange. The main customers in these restaurants tend to be
retired people (go to Mee Wah at lunch time) many who want a cheap
lunch, not necessarily a good lunch.

The place is large, perhaps too large. Sometimes this makes a place
feel emptier than it is.

The menu is very large, and settled for the daily special (bento with
breaded chicken (chicken katsu). They have the option to add tempura
for 2 dollars, which I did. I also added an uni nigiri.

It was a lot of food. Everything was good, including service. The only
downside was the uni, which was below my expectations.

In terms of price this is a great deal. You get a lot of food for 10
dollars plus tax.

Definitely a good place for lunch, particularly given its
benefit-price ratio. I feel I need to try some other dishes before I
can fully recommend it.

Verdict: Good food. Excellent value. I will return.

Paid: 11.20 + tip (plus 2.80 of the uni nigiri)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:AZUMA SUSHI
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/azuma-sushi.html

No. 40

<2010-07-08 Thu> I read some reviews of Osaka Sushi, and many
reviewers compared it against Azuma.

Azuma Sushi opens at 11:00, which worked very well tome. I was the
first person in the restaurant. If I though Osaka was a big place,
Azuma is huge.

They also offer a very large menu, including many lunch specials. Like
Osaka, you can add tempura to many of them for 2 dollars. They also
run a daily special that I was temped to order. But I was tired of
bento boxes; instead I ordered their sashimi lunch special and a bowl
of rice.

The sashimi (as you can see in the photo) came with maguro, salmon,
hotate, ika and tako. Overall, good sashimi; it could have been
excellent, but the maguro was below the rest. Considering the
cost, however, I was a happy customer.

I will come back. It is a good location (in the downtown core) with
good, well priced food. I have to visit it again to fully recommend
it.

Verdict: Good food. Good value. I will return.

Paid: 13.40 + tip (plus 2.80 of an unagi nigiri)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:EBIZO JAPANESE RESTAURANT

No. 41

<2010-07-09 Fri> I am surprised by how many Japanese restaurants
Victoria has. There are more than 20, including those in its vicinity
with Oak Bay. No wonder why I haven't been to many of them.

I am also surprised by how biased I am against the downtown core,
particularly the Empress area. In my mind I imagine many of them as
tourist traps. 

Ebizo is right in this area. It is a small restaurant, that posts the
hours: From 11:30 until we close. What does it mean "until we close":
until they run out of their lunch fare, apparently.

The restaurant is small and cozy, and has a large bar area (it sits
around 10). My first surprise was how many "regulars" this restaurant
had. It was easy to spot them: walked in, directly to the bar, without
waiting to be sited. The table next to me had regulars too. This, in
my opinion, is one the best signs of success of a restaurant.

It seems that, with the exception of Japanese Village, every
restaurant in Victoria has a large menu at lunch time. It was a hard
decision. Their bento did not look very appealing, but the rest of
menu was (later I saw the bento special lunch in another table, it
looked small, but it was priced at less than $8).

I came in the middle of lunch service, and had to wait a bit to be
served. In the meantime I had time to look around. This place felt
Japanese (as many of the restaurants I have visited in Japan). Perhaps
the only strange aspect of the decor was the red french style chairs,
but even those, I am sure I can find them in Japan. Perhaps what I am
trying to say is that this place had its own personality, as
Mutsuki-An does. Sen Zushi, on the other hand tries to be too Japanese
(with a Samurai helmet on the bar--oh, how much I miss the old Sen
Zushi)).

The prices felt a bit more expensive than most other places (like
those of Matsuki-An). I was temped by the una-don, but settled for the
Ebizo Sushi and a unagi nigiri.

First surprise: I was offered an oshibori (the hot towel). This was a
first in Victoria (at lunch time). 

My nigiri was very good. I am biased against cooked ebi (shrimp). I
find it has very little flavour, I prefer it raw.

Second surprise: my unagi arrived without ginger nor wasabi! Finally,
a place in Victoria that knows how to serve it. It was good too.

The service leaves to be desired. My glass sit empty too long too many
times. When I asked for the bill, the waiter replied "you haven't
gotten it yet?".

It is my first visit, but it goes into my rotation. I want to try it
again, to see if it continues to be as good as I think it is.

Verdict: Feels like authentic Japanese food, at a price higher than
other places in the area. I will come back, and then I could fully
recommend it.

Paid: 15.84 + tip (plus 2.80 of an unagi nigiri).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MACCHIATO

No. 42

<2010-07-09 Fri> This is one of my favorite destinations. I like to
sit on the bench by the window and look at the people pass by. The
space is perfect for working on a laptop (my arms sit perfectly on the
table, while I type, in what I consider the perfect arms-hands
position). 

The coffee is very good. My only complain is that they close too early
(at 5:00PM, 4:30 on Sat, they don't open on Sunday)

Verdict: Recommended

Internet: No


Paid: 2.45
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SURA

Warning: Dinner Review

I came with company. We were asked at the door if we wanted barbecue
of not. This is a tough decision to make when you have never been
there before. 

We opted for barbecue, and ordered the 2 persons special. 

It was wayyyy too much food. Wayyyy to much. And as good sports we
kept eating and eating and eating. 12hrs later I am still full. The
food was good. I particularly liked the last spicy beef. I think I
could just order that one with vegetables and be happy. I should have
asked what its name is!

The meal was good and the service excellent (they cook the food for you
in front of you).

Verdict: Yes, Sura is in the rotation as good food at a excellent value.

Paid: 22.50 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BRASSERIE L'ECOLE
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/brasserie-lecole.html

No. 43

Dinner review (no lunch service)

<2010-07-10 Sat>
I am a regular. I strongly believe it is one of the best restaurants
in town, and it is not too expensive. 

This is a restaurant that you can pass by and not know it is there. It
used to be surrounded by two Chinese convenience stores (now only
one). It is in a location where you do not expect a French restaurant.

Unfortunately it does not open at lunch time, and recently stopped
accepting reservations. This means that you have to arrive at opening
time (5:30) if you want to make sure you get one. The persons in front
of us told us they had come another day, and waited in line just to
find they were just behind the last people to get a table.

What does this mean? First, that you have to plan to either arrive
early, or wait until a table empties. My understanding is that, after
service starts, you can drop by, give your name and a phone number and
they will call you (expecting you to be somewhere in the vicinity and
quickly to come to claim your table). Second, that if a restaurant
that does not take reservations gets full as it opens its doors, that
is probably means quality. And it does. Every meal I had there, I have
been very satisfied. The food is always delicious, and the service is
some of the best in town.

We had 2 appetizers and 3 entrees and the bill was 100. And we were
full. We couldn't eat dessert. I had the onion soup, which is always
delicious, and mussels + fries. The mussels are a classic (along the
steak) and they offer 3 variants. I can't recall which one I ordered,
but they were delicious,

I really wish they'd serve lunch.

Verdict: One of my favorite dinner destinations.

Paid: 33+tip (per person)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:AURA
http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/aura.html

No. 44

<2010-07-11 Sun> It was 4:00 on Sunday, and I was trying to find a
place that would impress my out-of-Victoria visitor.  Fortunately I
recalled that Aura has a full day menu.

Aura is located in the Laurel Point Hotel. I have read very good
things about it, one of them that it might have the best burger in
town. I checked online and found they offer an "all day lounge menu"
that included the said burger.

I was glad we were there. First, the restaurant was almost empty and
we got a table in the patio next to the ocean. It was a great view of
the harbour. Just the view was worth it.

We both ordered the said burger. Is it the best burger in town? Yes,
it is. It is an amazing burger. The bun is fresh and flavourful
(covered with sesame seeds). The topping is bacon and mushrooms--I
can't recall the name of the type of the mushrooms it had, and forgot
to take a photograph! And it is huge! I would have preferred slightly
less meat, but I don't complain.

And quality of the service matched the quality of the food, and the
quality of the view.

Verdict: A great first time experience. I'll probably come back soon.

Paid: 19.04 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KISSAKO GREEN TEA CAFE

No. 45

<2010-07-12 Mon> In Canada, we are used to see Japanese restaurants
that offer a very long list of options. Everything from soba or udon
to sushi, sashimi and tempura. In Japan, however, it is very common to
see restaurants that specialize in just one type of food, either a
style (i.e. a ramen restaurant), or a type of food (i.e. a
crab--kani-- restaurant).

Kissako is located in Oak Bay just outside Victoria. This is a very
different type of Japanese restaurant. I would classify it as a
sushi/nigiri deli. It is a family restaurant. It looks like the couple
who run the restaurant are the owners. They are very sweet, older age,
and Japanese looking.

There is no table service. You come to the cashier, and order from the
wall menu. It is sometimes challenging to do that. You have no idea
what the options are, and you need to quickly scan the menu with the
pressure of having people behind who might also want to order.  For
this reason I recommend you go to their web site
(http://kissakogreenteacafe.com/food.htm) and decide, in advance, what
you would like. It is not complicated: the options are deli food
(sandwiches and salads), maki sushi, nigiri and sashimi.

My friend had no experience in Japanese food, hence I ordered the crab
and avocado, smoked tuna and unagi rolls. I also ordered one of their
brown rice (vegetarian) avocado and spinach roll plus an order of
sashimi.

My first impression was that the rolls had an amateurish look. They
looked closer to what I would have prepared than to what I expect in a
restaurant. The sashimi confused me: the salmon looked like smoked
salmon in the way it was sliced (but it was raw). The daicon was
sliced in very large pieces (compared to what I am used to). Overall,
the presentation of the food was below average.

The tuna and the salmon sashimi were average as well as most of the
rolls, except the spinach and avocado, which is their speciality. This
roll was above the rest of the food and well worth coming to this
restaurant. The next time I I'll order from the brown sushi menu.

In my opinion, it is a place to have a quick snack, rather than a full
lunch (at least of the type I like). The prices feel expensive, and
because it lacks a true lunch special, they add up quickly. The
advantage is that they keep the same prices all day, and stay open
during hours that most places are not (from 11:30 to 6 or 7PM
depending on the day of the week). Hence, what is an expensive lunch,
might feel like a cheap dinner.

Verdict: Good Japanese snack, but feels pricey for lunch.

Price: 15.42 (per person)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Zambri's

No. 46

<2010-07-13 Tue>
I have been a loyal customer of Zambri's for a very, very long time.
Zambri's was responsible for changing my view on what Italian food is.

It is a small, cozy place. We, the regulars, recognize each
other. When I enter Zambri's I feel I am treated like family. Perhaps
what makes the relationship with Zambri's different is that I get to
talk to the people in the kitchen.

The  cooks are frequently the unsung heroes of the restaurant
industry. A restaurant can survive without good kitchen staff, but it
will excel if its they are good.

The more I learn about restaurants, the more I realize that the chef
is really the one that gives a restaurant its name. He or she decide
what the items on the menu are, and how they should be cooked. And the
chef does quality control. Opening a good restaurant should usually
start by hiring a good chef, and at the high echelons of the food
industry, by partnering with a great one.

At Zambri's I usually chat with the lunch cook (is he a sous chef in
the hierarchy of the kitchen? I don't know) and his assistant. And
frequently I give my opinion on the food. It is a great feeling to be
able to tell the people that cook my food that I had a wonderful meal,
and similarly, to complain directly to them about a bad one. They
appreciate it, because they want to be better.

I love Zambri's for far more than its food, and that makes me
extremely biased to review it. 

I enjoy that the menu changes daily and I never know what to expect:
sometimes I have great surprises, and sometimes I have to settle with
something that would not have been my first option. It is like eating
a friends home. The menu is divided into three parts: hot sandwiches,
pastas and main entrees. I usually order from the entree. The pastas
are usually around 12 dollars, while the entrees vary from 16 to 17
(tax on top).

It is cafeteria style: you line up, order from the wall, pay, and sit,
and you get your cutlery and your water.

Yesterday I ordered the halibut. Polenta is a typical side dish, food
that brings me back to my childhood. It was accompanied by beans and
rhubarb. The presentation was a bit messy: the rhubarb was thrown on
top, almost like an afterthought. I have heard complaints that
Zambri's is going too far to the garlic, and yesterday I felt it was
strong. I should pay attention more to this in the future. My halibut,
unfortunately, was slightly overcooked and hence, dry. I am very
finicky about fish, and I like it "rare". I don't like tuna or halibut
that is overcooked, and they know it.

And this visit is teaching me a lesson: it is impossible to be fair to
a restaurant with only one visit. You can't develop a relationship,
and you can't know the nuisances of a place until you visit it several
times.

Verdict: An average meal, yet, I'll remain loyal and come back.

Paid:  18.98 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Oak Bay Marina Coffee Shop

No. 47

<2010-07-13 Tue>
A bad coffee shop with an excellent view, is the way I can summarize
this place. It feels run down. 

I ordered a lemon pound cake and a espresso.

The espresso was originally served in a paper cup (even though I asked
for it "for here"). Fortunately the barista redid it (most baristas
would have poured it), and I thanked her for that!

The pound cake was old, very old. I was asked if I wanted it warm, but
it was a microwave. You can't warm bread and cakes in microwaves!
Well, you can, but it is a very different result than using a toaster.

It is a place that you come for the view of the marina, not the food.

Verdict: I come for the view.

Internet: Yes

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:University Club at UVic

No. 48.

<2010-07-14 Wed> Located at the UVic, you have to either: a) be a member; b) accompany a member; or be there in c) UVic official business. 

The University is a death trap when it comes to food. It has very few choices and overpriced choices, and no commercial businesses around.

The UVic building is beautiful. It is a wood structure with a  pyramidal high ceiling in the main floor of the restaurant. There is a patio with a pond, with tables to eat outdoors under large umbrellas. And the building is well isolated from its surroundings. It is a pleasant lunch destination.

The Club is also a frequent event destination. That they there was a very large event with a barbecue buffet. We had a reservation but were tucked to the far inside of the dinning hall. It was a lucky location, because had we been closer to the doors, we would have been more "smoked" by the outdoor barbecue.

I ordered a steak. The meat was tougher than I like it, but the potatoes were done to perfection. The snow peas were delicious, but the carrots were hard. Overall, it was a decent lunch.

Verdict: Not bad, but this is usually a place where I must come, not by my own option.

Paid: 13 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OGDEN POINT CAFE

No. 49

<2010-07-15 Thu>
Overpriced food, bad coffee, with splendid view.

You really have to have a no love for food to enjoy a meal at Ogden Point. Even their desserts are bad towards inedible. To top it all, it is expensive. The only exception in the bagels, the only item in the menu that I could recommend.

The coffee sucks. 

But the view! The view! It is spectacular. Getting a table, and working for a couple of hours with the view of the Strait is worth everything else.

I have the feeling this place would be packed if the food was good. Perhaps, it is better that stays this way.

The inside table and chairs are more comfortable than the solarium and patio ones.

Verdict: I come for the view.

Paid: 11 for double espresso, some type of dessert raspberry bar, and a chocolate.

Internet: Yes
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BEIRUT RESTAURANT

No. 50

Not worth it.

<2010-07-15 Thu> I should be honest. I was already worried by the time I was walking towards the restaurant. The reviews about this restaurant haven't been very positive; the probability of failure was high.

I passed by Devour (a place that is high in my list of must-visit), and the ultra cheap Saigon Harbour, thinking I perhaps should change my mind. "No, Beirut is the place visit today", I kept repeating myself.

I like shawarmas and their close cousins the Greek gyros. One of my favourite fast-food meals is a Greek gyro in the Latin Neighbourhood in Paris, just between St Germain de Pres and Notre Dame. The gyros are made of lamb, and cut on-demand. You can order them on baguette or pita, and add fries or salad. Try the baguette and fries version for a full meal for a paltry 5 euros. The meet is usually juicy and full of flavour. Surprisingly, the fries and the baguette work together. I love them.

As I entered, Beirut positively surprised me: it had real meat in their spits. Very frequently you see in these restaurants spits loaded with a bad-looking meat paste, and who knows what is really in them. Beirut uses real meat, and it is marinated in very dark spices.

It is a "wall menu" and you have to stop to think what you want. They divide it into 3 main categories: wraps, platters, and side dishes. They are expensive: the lamb wrap costs 7:49 + tax. The platter is a whooping 11.99+tax.

This is a hard area for a restaurant. There are too many restaurants around. Just across the corner, at Baan Thai, you can have an excellent lunch meal for 10 + tax tat includes soup, spit, rice, the entree and unlimited water. At Pho Vy you can get a bowl of pho for a price similar to the wraps. And you get unlimited water!

This is fast food: I got my wrap "wrapped" in paper, and all they provide is napkins, and plastic cutlery. No water. There very few tables, each 50cm per side large. A long wall-and-window bar that is too narrow, and way from the wall, that you might worry your food will fall through the crack.

And this is fast food in its worse. Subway feels crafted in comparison (and it is just across the street, with better prices too).

Finally, the food. I ordered a lamb shawarma. I was surprised that the meet was not sliced from the spits on demand. Instead, it was extracted from a container as fast food is supposed to be.

The meet was hard and dry and the type of cooking/spices/marinate make it feel gritty. Perhaps it is a staple of Lebanon, but I didn't like it. Despite being heavily marinated, it had little flavour, and some of it was plain tough. I didn't finish it.

What a shame. Cooking meet in a spit makes it cook slowly, accentuating the flavours. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawarma">Middle Easterners</a>, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyros">Greeks</a>, and <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taco_al_pastor">Mexicans</a> use the same style of cooking with different objectives, and when done well, the results are superb.

On the positive side, the place was clean and bright.

I don't plan to come back to Beirut for lunch when there are so many, much better options around: Pho Vy, Baan Thai and Devour. Even Pho Hoa, Saigon harbour or Sookjay are way better. In fact, any of the restaurants that I have tried in a one block radious are better. And if you really want fast food: try Subway instead, or walk for a sandwich to Choux Choux (I think they still serve them).

The place, however, had a fair number of customers while I was there (around 10 people in 30 minutes I was there).

Verdict: Beirut Express is a fastfood joint with overpriced mediocre food, at least what I tried.

Paid: 8.40
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TAPA BAR RESTAURANT:Take out

No. 4

<2010-07-16 Fri> I had visited the restaurant long before in my quest, but didn't write a review. Today, I had a "business" lunch and it was the perfect opportunity for the Tapa Bar, since it is usually better enjoyed with a group of people.

We sat in the outside. It was a pleasant day (but a bit cold for one of our friends). The problem of the alley is that there is little sun light in it.There was construction across the street and it was very loud at times.

We ordered 5 plates: the pesto pizza, the eggplant, the cubanette con pollo (chicken), the calamari fritos (squid) and the pollo al chipotle (chicken wings). Food was good, but the star of the meal was the pizza. In my opinion, the pizza, my favorite dish, is well worth the trip. It is made with apple and pecans, on a bed of cilantro pesto and comes with fresh lime you can squeeze on top (I am not a big fan of pizza in general, so take my comment with a grain of salt). The pollo was totally covered with garlic, and too spicy for some, but it was very good for me. The squid was properly cooked, although not much. The eggplant was good too.  The only disappointment was the cubanelle.

The Tapa is a good destination. I might be pricey if you are alone, but if you are in a group, and you share, it is very affordable.  Furthermore, their prices are the same day long and are open most of the day and almost into midnight.

Sharing food is also very social. It promotes conviviality. I like it.

Verdict: a very good meal, at a very affordable price.  Great destination for groups of people.

Postscript: On <2010-05-29 Sat> I ordered a pesto pizza to go. It was as delicious as usual.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TAMALES at the Moss St Market

No. 51

<2010-07-17 Sat> It was the Moss st Paint In, and to avoid feeling hungry we started by having some tamales at the Market.

I have never had good tamales in Victoria, and decided to give them a try (the other option was a sausage). We ordered two: a "rajas con queso" and a "chicken with salsa verde". They were both of a decent size, but the rajas, in both of our opinions, were better. The chicken was drier and had slivers of meet mixed with the corn; overall it had less flavour. 

As a snack, to keep your stomach busy for a while, they will work.

But at 5 dollars each I cannot recommend them as lunch, since you will need to have two to feel satisfied. And 10 dollars for lunch on a paper tray and plastic fork, without a place to sit is too expensive, in my view. I was surprised by how briskly they were selling them. Considering that they had to provide no service (no tables, no waiting staff, no washing of plates, etc), they were probably making a good profit.


My only problem is that I crave tamales, so I might come back, since they are the "best" in town (at least the ones I had). I should try the other options soon to get a more fair comparison.

Verdict: Expensive tamales with little filling. 

Paid: 5 per tamal.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SHIZEN JAPANESE RESTAURANT

No. 52

<2010-07-17 Sat> Shize is located in the China block.

From the moment we walked in, it was a surprise. From the outside I would have never imagined that this restaurant was soo big. The restaurant has a main and upper floor. We arrived late, almost at the time they were closing lunch service. 

The menu is large, and has a lunch specials section. Their bento boxes start at $7.95 + tax.

We simply ordered their "Combo B: love boat for 2 special". It includes sashimi, a california roll, 4 nigiris, fruit, miso soup and rice. 

The food was plentiful and good. We were fully satisfied with it.

The service was slow, but it was understandable: they had finish serving lunch, and they (the servers) were already eating and to take care of us on the side.

Overall, a nice surprise. I'll certainly come back.

Verdict: Good, inexpensive food.

Paid: $12.29 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PHO VY VIETNAMESE RESTAURANT

No. 53

<2010-07-18 Sun> Pho Vy is a local favorite. It offers simple, inexpensive, and, more importantly good food.

It is small restaurant, and it gets packed at lunch time, and it is not uncommon to see a small line on the door.

This is one of my frequent lunch destinations. I come here when either: I am in a rush; I crave Pho, or I want a small lunch. Today it was a combination of the latter two. Pho is served very quickly, and I prefer it to walking into a fast food restaurant.

I ordered the pho with steak, tripe, tendon and flank, regular size. The pho comes with a good portion of bean sprouts, basil, cilantro and few slices of jalapeño. Slice the herbs, and pour everything in.

The restaurant menu includes many options besides pho but I have never ventured to them. When I come here is because I want pho. After all, if the name is "Pho Vy", then Pho must be their speciality.

Service varies in quality, but when I order pho there is not much that I need. People are used to go to the cashier to pay for their food, or you can ask for the bill and pay from your table.

Verdict: A solid, reliable destination for inexpensive and good pho. I am a regular.

Paid: 9 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OSAKA SUSHI VICTORIA

This is a dinner review

<2010-07-18 Sun> Many restaurants close for Sunday afternoon, so it pays to call them in advance. I was in the vicinity and decided that it was a good option to try for dinner.

The restaurant was relatively empty. It was around 7:00 PM. 

We ordered the Sashimi Deluxe special, unagi nigiris, miso soup and a spicy tuna roll.

The sashimi was beautifully presented. It contained a large number of pieces and variety, as you can see in the photos. We had to ask what each one was, because there were many I could not recognized. It even included a quail egg! Unfortunately, the egg was sitting on top of the wasabi. When I tried to move it aside, I tipped it and dropped it onto the bed of ice. Oh well, I'll be more careful next time. The unagi was good too, and I think we could have been satisfied without it. The miso soup is also very good and full of flavour.  The only one I didn't enjoy was the spicy tuna roll: the flavour of the tuna was obliterated by the others, instead of all of them working together.

One interesting detail about the sashimi box. We were told the seaweed was also edible, because many people think it is only for decoration. It was very good.

In retrospective, Sundays is probably the worst day to go to a Japanese restaurant for, because the food is not as fresh as other days. But you really need to talk to your restaurant to find out which days they bring what. For example, at Zen Sushi, if you want the best uni, you need to have in on Thursdays (when they have it). One needs to build a relationship with the restaurant to start to know their schedule.

Verdict: a very good meal, and at a very good price. This is my second visit to Osaka and I'll keep coming back.

Paid: 22.40 per person.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MOXIE'S MED GRILL ON YATES STREET

No. 54

<2010-07-19 Mon> Dreaded Monday. If you have read my reviews before or eat a lot out, you know that Mondays are usually a day in which restaurants close. To top it all, I must be at work at 13:00. This reduces the areas of the city where I can venture for lunch.
                                                                     
I decided to give Moxie's a try. I tend to avoid restaurants that like cloning themselves. I know why they exist: they help the customer balance the information  asymmetry between the customer and the restaurant: if we have visited one of the branches, we know (more/less) what to expect when we enter another one. Uniformity is the name of the game. 

I have never visited another Moxie's (and I think I have been on this one twice before). In one occasion I had an above average lunch, and in another one a below average one. 

Moxie's prides for having 44 branches across North America and a Web site soo generic that you can't find the open hours of its Victoria one.

The restaurant is very large and its main floor has high ceilings. This makes it feel bigger, and it makes it a very welcoming space. Its tables and chairs are comfortable, and you get a servillette. 

The lunch menu is primarily burgers, but they offer some lunch specials for the "season". It is clear that this is a corporate restaurant: they specials are printed in nice an colourful plasticized pamphlets that a typical restaurant will probably be willing to pay for.

I opted for the cod tacos with a salad.

The tacos came in a "taco" holder. A first for me. I thought for a second that I had crispy tacos (which I consider an aberration), thankfully I was mistaken.

As you can see from the photo, the tacos has two small pieces of deep fried fish and some vegetables (lettuce, red pepper). They were ok. The salsa was very good and it added flavour to them. But didn't have much flavour (it felt it had been frozen, but I don't know for sure); the guacamole (that green layer on the tortilla) felt like that spread sold in the supermarkets (what I call "artificial" guacamole, and did not feel or taste fresh, but it had a good lime flavour that worked with the salsa and the fish. Unfortunately some of the tortillas where cold to the touch. I am not talking tepid. They were cold to the touch as if they had just been taken from the fridge. Why? I don't know, because they had grill marks on them. Overall the tacos got a thumbs down. 

The salad, on the other hand, was the star. It contain cranberries, feta and a good dressing. I craved for more.

The service on the other hand, was impeccable. I was asked how the food was, and I was sincere: one of the tortilla was cold as if taken from the fridge, which I didn't understand because it had grilled marks. I added I was ok with it, but that the kitchen should be informed. She guaranteed me she would do it. Minutes later the manager approached my table to ask me about my dissatisfaction with the food, which I stated. 

The lesson? Moxie's cares about customer service, and seems to have good procedures in place to address it. I felt very satisfied with the way the restaurant handled my complaint, because I felt that it had not fallen in deaf ears (at least at that moment).

In a way, Moxie's is a contradiction: excellent service (both in terms of place, table, cutlery, servers), but food that sometimes feels prefabricated and below my expectations (particularly when I consider the type of restaurant it wants to position itself).

Verdict: Neutral

Paid: 14.56 + tax
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BLACK STILT COFFEE LOUNGE, THE

No. 55

This is a relative new coffee shop. It is located in what used to be a laundry mat. 

I like it. Lots of space to sit. The tables and chairs are relatively comfortable. I saw many people using laptops, a easy demonstration that it provides free Internet.

The coffee was average. It is not what will bring me back. But the environment and the free Internet will. Unfortunately the close at 6 PM, and at 4 PM on the weekends.

It seems that the Black Stilt has a social conscience, as it is trying to raise money for developing countries coffee farmers.

Verdict: A good Internet location if you live close by.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DAIDOCO DELI

No. 56

<2010-07-20 Tue> Daidoco is one of the best kept secrets of Victoria. It is a small tiny restaurant located behind the Bug Zoo. It is cozy, with small, but numerous tables, and a very nature oriented decor.

I believe the owners are the ones who run the restaurant (the man who is the chef and the woman who runs everything else). They are some of the nicest restaurant staff around. 

Surprisingly, they don't advertise it as Japanese, even though they both are Japanese, they communicate in Japanese, and their dishes are primarily Japanese influence (and some Chinese). Several of the customers spoke Japanese.

They are extremely proud of local-sourcing their vegetables (a good proportion is organic) from a Matchosin farm and from their own garden (I don't think there are many other places that can make such claim). Locavores, this is one of the places to pay a visit.

Daidoco is cafeteria style (think Zambri's at lunch time--in fact, it was Jo, the co-owner of Zambri's who called my attention to this restaurant). 

They have a very small menu. It usually includes a special of the day, some appetizers (e.g. rice balls and noodle salad) and salmon and tuna don. The most expensive item is 7.00 + tax (not including rice).  Its menu might be its only Achilles' tendon because you might not like anything they offer.

I ordered the special of the day (ling cod with ginger sauce, other vegetables). I added rice to it. You have the option of white or organic brown rice. And it was soo good. Everything was full of flavour, starting with the fish, of which I got a large portion. The vegetables were fresh, and made a bed on top which the fish and sauce sat. I wanted to lick the plate, but opted to lift it to my mouth and pour everything left on it into my mouth.

As I eat, the regulars were coming in, asking them how they were and how they have spent the weekend. It is obvious that they have built relationships. Most of its customers ordered take out.

Daidoco is the type of restaurant I love to support. When you come to his restaurant, you see friendly, honest, hard working local people, full or pride of the food they offer, and its sources, and it is not surprise they deliver healthy, delicious food at an inexpensive price. The food world would be much better if other restaurants learn some lessons from Daidoco's playbook.

Daidoco opens at 11 and closes when the food is gone or around 4. It does not open on the weekends. 

Verdict: Highly recommended. Considering the freshness of the food, the amount and you get, and the price you pay, I'll place Daidoco as the best simple lunch destination in Victoria, and one of Victoria's best kept secrets.

Paid: 9.50 + tip (daily special + rice)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Sally Bun

No. 57

<2010-07-21 Wed>
Sally Bun offers simple and inexpensive buns either for dine-in or take out.

My plan was to have dinner out, which means I had to have a light lunch. I wasn't sure where to go. I drove to Fort and Cook, and started walking and came across Sally Bun. It had been almost five years from the last time I had been there, and had forgotten about it. It was the perfect destination for the type of meal I had planned.

Sally Bun sells, well, buns, with various fillings, including vegetarian ones. It was a difficult choice, and settled for a cream cheese and mushroom. It was less than 4 dollars including tax!  It is cafeteria style: you order from the wall, wait for your bun to be heated (if you so choose) and take it to your table.

I understand the need to warm them in microwaves (it would take too long to use a toaster) but I recommend that ify you buy them to take home, you invest them time. Microwaves make the bread soft, rather than crispy. 

It was 2:00 PM and there was only one other customer. I noticed the back garden was open, and decided to venture there. What a surprise! It was like being thrown to a different city and time. It was pleasantly warm and under the shade, and it was all for myself.  Eating in the backyard is worth the price of the bun. 

The bun itself was very good, but the filling was messy. The cream cheese overwhelmed the mushrooms. I will have to try others.

In the context of many coffee shops that sell expensive and bad snack food, Sally Bun is a gem. I recommend it as a quick snack, either for lunch, or to take out. Its only disadvantage is that they don't open very late (Mon-Fri: 5:30 PM, and Sat 4:30 PM).

Verdict: A very good snack at an unbelievably inexpensive price.

Paid: $4
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:STAGE WINE BAR LTD

No. 58

Liz W. here:

<2010-07-21 Wed>
Aside from the lack of obvious parking, Stage delivers without any smoke and mirrors. When we first arrived, I was a little overwhelmed by the smell of meat and poultry afforded by the open kitchen. The service was excellent-- prompt and attentive without being intrusive. The first item was the best--the risotto. The trout was excellent. We were divided by the duck--Daniel wasn't keen on the cabbage and I was indifferent to the poultry. I have eaten too many creme brûlée recently--this one was as nice as all the rest. Stage welcomes all types, theatrically dressed or casual, in a warm environment with decor that reminds me of its owners' Vancouver origins. Even those who despise restaurants and abhor eating should stop by to see the beautiful mermaid sculpture on the wall.  

dmg here:

Stage is a very good option for those of us who like light dinners.

Verdict: 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:HONG KONG WEST

No. 59

Guest photos by JD.

<2010-07-22 Thu> Authentic Schezuan food that feels like touching a 9-volt battery terminals with the tongue.

A friend whose food recommendations I trust recommended me Honk Kong West as authentic Schezuan food, and added: you need to go with a person that speaks Chinese.

Today it is less a secret that many Chinese restaurants have two menus: the English one and the Chinese, that are different. Frequently restaurants think that non Chinese will not like the authentic fare. In Richmond I have been "invited" to change my order because I might not like it.

I enlisted my Chinese interpreter, HZ, by bribing him to a free lunch. 

We arrived early, and were greeted by a family of Chinese immigrants who run the restaurant: they look like grand parents and teenage grandson. They are the front operation of the restaurant. They talked to HZ in Chinese, and during our entire meal we exchanged very few words in English with them.

We sat and HZ was given a menu. In China, it is common that one person orders for the entire table. The plates are to be shared. HZ explained to me that this is an important responsibility that cannot be taken lightly: the choices should match between each other; one must order meat and vegetables to have a full meal. The menu had more than 30 options, all written in Chinese. It reminded me my days in Japan where food lottery was a common method of ordering until I got slightly familiar with the Kanji.

I said: order as if you were at home, we will eat everything. JD nodded. HZ enquire about our willingness to eat frog, to which both gave a thumbs up. We ordered three dishes: Poach Fish with hot chili - 水煮鱼 (pronounced as Shui Chu Yu), spicy bullfrog  - 香辣牛蛙 (pronounced as Shiang La Niu Wa)  and dry-fried french beans with minced pork and preserved vegetables - 干煸四季豆 (pronounced as Gan Bian Si Ji Dou), plus some rice.

The first to arrive was the fish. We could immediately see it was going to be spicy: it was loaded with garlic and chillies. We promptly filled our plates and were surprised by that sudden rush that accompanies authentic Szechuan food. It is a sudden tingling of your tongue, like if it is getting numb (and one of the strong memories I have about eating in China). I have always being curious about what creates it, my gut feeling was that it was star anise (another typical spice of Szechuan food) and check the wikipedia. I was wrong: the tingling is produced by the Sichuan Pepper and cites Harold McGee book "On Food and Cooking", a book that any kitchen nerd (like me) who likes food (like me) or likes to cook food (like me) should have in his bookshelf. Harold explains:

"The [..] Sichuan pepper [..] offer a strange and interesting version of pungency." and continues "[The pungency compounds in the Sichuan pepper] produce a strange, tingling, buzzing numbing sensation that is something like the effect of carbonated drinks or a mild electrical current (touching the terminals of a nine-volt battery [who hasn't done that!])."  [They] appear to act on several different kinds of nerve endings at once, induce sensitivity to touch and cold in nerves that are ordinarily nonsensitive, and so perhaps causes a kind of general neurological confusion".

How true the description is, and how amazingly refreshing it feels.

You have to be warned: Szechuan food is not for everybody. It is loaded with chillies, so after your tongue feels numb and opens, the rush of the chillies kicks in. Amazing food, the fish, I believe it was basa, worked well with the dish and was well cooked. Overall a dish that will make me come back on its own.

The frog was ok. Interesting, but not memorable. The beans were another delicious addition to an already rich meal.

It was spicy, we had to ask for extra napkins, and tea, and we ate and ate and ate, and could not finish the food. HZ gave the best compliment: this is food as if I was in Shangai.

As we devoured our meal we noticed the daily specials: the food that you would expect in any Chinese restaurant: the combos, with the rice, roll and some stir fried food.  We could see the woman in the table next to ours ordering from that menu..

Like Antony Bourdain explains in one of the episodes of "No Reservations", in these Chinese restaurants there are two different worlds, few meters away from each other.

Get your translator and try it. Just bear in mind: Szechuan food is not for the weak of tongue, mouth and stomach.

This place is worth exploring. I have not been excited about a menu for a long time. 

Verdict: Authentic Szechuan food in a family restaurant.

Paid: 15/person + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:AL-SULTAN RESTAURANT

No. 60

<2010-07-23 Fri>

Good and inexpensive shawarmas in an unassuming location.

What process do we follow to decide if we should, or not, go into a
restaurant? I have frequently wondered.

I have passed by Al-Sultan several times, and I always wondered if I
should have lunch there. The front is unassuming, and as I usually pass in a
hurry, I never really stop to look inside the windows to find out more
about the restaurant.

I looked for research that looks into the factors that determine our
choice to go a restaurant, and one aspect it is mentioned is that
deciding where to go is always stressing for the persons who have to
make the decision. You are, in front of a restaurant, trying to decide
if it will satisfy your hunger, and if its worth the money. After all,
a bad meal is not something you can return the next day, as you would
with a bad TV at Future Shop (sometimes I wish I could, though).

Wanting to visit every restaurant in Victoria has removed that
apprehension from my restaurant visits. Now, when I see a restaurant,
I know I am going to try it at some point; and yes, I'll have some bad
meals, but I will also have memorable ones too.

Al Sultan wasn't my first option this day. It was late, LR and I were in
China-block, and were trying to find a place that we would both find
acceptable, when I remembered Al-Sultan. I quickly called them, and
discovered they stay open from lunch to dinner time. Perfect.

We arrived and were surprised by the size of the restaurant. Like
Shizen, it has two floors of tables. The menu is a full-day one, but
they have  daily lunch specials. Unfortunately it was late for it, so we
chose instead to have shawarmas: LR ordered the falafel, and I ordered
the beef. But there was no beef that day, so I had to settle for chicken.

The restaurant feels like a family business. The son and the father (I
presume) were both using their computers as we walked in. The son was the
one who served us. Visiting these places run by immigrants or children
of immigrants reminds me of the greatness of Canadian's
multicultural mosaic.  The immigrants bring along not only their
skills and dreams, but also their  traditions, food being one of the most
important ones. 

Granted, Victoria is not exactly the Mecca of
international food in Canada. Yet, we have many of these restaurants.

As soon as we sat, the music system started playing some middle
eastern music. A group of young middle eastern people soon arrived to
make the place look alive. 

Our shawarmas arrived. They were adorned by a dolma as a side, which
as a very nice touch. We both enjoyed them. They were both freshly
prepared, simple and good. The chicken and the falafel were both
nicely cooked and tasty. The dressing of the shawarma was flavourful
and combined nicely with the filling.

Our service left to be desired (he apologized by the end of our meal,
acknowledging that he had forgotten about us), but the overall
experience was good.

One final note: this is the only restaurant I have visited that
explicitly labels its meat as halal, if that is an important
consideration for you.

Verdict: Simple, yet good shawarmas at a very good price. Recommended
for a quick, inexpensive lunch.

Paid: 7.75 (I think) + tip 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DEVOUR FOOD

No. 61

<2010-07-26 Mon>

Food to devour: another of  Victoria's secrets.

It is not uncommon that my conversations with strangers typically end around food and restaurants. I am always curious to know what people think about restaurants, and to find the new ones.

It was around 2 months ago that somebody mentioned to me Devour as being really good, but didn't really payed attention to it. Then I started to notice how good reviews it was receiving.

It is located in the old "Metro" Spanish restaurant, one that I never visited, in what I believe is the most competitive food area in Victoria (there are at least 15 restaurants in that block). 

I knew it was small, and it had its following. On Mondays I usually have to eat early, I thought arriving around 11:15 was perfect.

Devour is a beautiful little restaurant. It is comprised of a bunch of small tables, very close to each other. It also has two tables outside, if you like your food smoked.

Imagine a little Zambri's at lunch time. That is what Devour feels like. Like Zambri's, it is wall menu, cafeteria style. I ordered the Smoked Salmon Tuna salad, which was the special of the day, picked my cutlery, found my table and waited for my food to arrive.

Which brings me to the real special feature of this restaurant: the food changes daily. I love that. Once I trust a restaurant, I love that the person cooking has the flexibility to cook as they wish, and wants to take advantage of it. Cooking is a form of expression, and I often wonder how disappointing it must be to be forced to cook the same day after day, particularly in those restaurants that are clones of another one, where the customer expects the same every day.

I believe Devour's secret is that its chef loves to cook, and it shows. 

I tend to avoid salads, and particularly smoked tuna ones because I can buy exactly the same tuna from the Fish Store in front of the Wharf. But given that it was the special of the day, well, I had to have it.

I am glad I did. Good cooking is about transforming ingredients, and in the process, elevating their whole into a new level that by themselves could not achieve. That was my salad.

It was beautifully presented and it was full of colours, textures and flavours everywhere: quail eggs, wheat,  tomatoes, olives, greens, the tuna of course. It was a delight.

To top it all,JZ. who manages a restaurant I like, was there having lunch too. We talked about food, restaurants, the restaurant business, and life in general. It was possible because the place is cozy, and promotes socializing (rather than the awful, uncomfortable booths so loved by many). JZ was having lunch in her table, I on mine, next to hers, and yet, we, unexpectedly, were able to make our meals into what they should be: an unplanned daily social event that celebrates life with food. And Devour was the conduct.

Verdict: Highly recommended.

Paid: $15.68

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CHEF SUZI IN THE SQUARE

No. 62

<2010-07-27 Tue>

This is "wall-menu" restaurant, and, as it is usual for new customers, the first minutes are spent decoding it. The menu is full of options, primarily burgers, sandwiches and wraps. Everything 
from beef to vegetarian options.

I was greeted by Suzi at the counter (who was helping momentarily at the front), who took my order. It was hard to decide, and finally selected the scallops burger, which was tucked in a little menu under the main one (I suspect this menu changes more frequently, but I don't really know). I felt that this burger was different and unique to the place. She interjected that it was an excellent choice, to which I replied that if she said so, it had to be. She was proud to say that the scallops were from Eastern Canada, from where she is from.

Delicious burger. the scallops were cooked to perfection, and very flavourful. I was expecting them to be pan-seared, but they appeared to be deep fried, with a coating of bread crumbs. They kept falling off the burger (due to their shape and generous amount). The bun was fresh, but not particularly interesting. Overall, a burger that I'll be happy to come back to have again.

A minor complain: I believe that a dish is the sum of all its parts. When I ordered I was surprised I wasn't ask about the side, and there was no information about it on the menu. I was surprised when my burger arrived with a side of tortilla chips. They didn't work at all with the rest of the dish. There was no dip whatsoever and the first chip I ate hurt my palate (this is, of course, my fault, but it affects my dining experience).

I think it is a good destination for an after-hours coffee and/or a snack (they have a espresso machine with manual levers). The place is welcoming, and comfortable, and if you like the outdoors, it has a small patio where you can sit (and with no cars passing by to stink your food). Its staff is very friendly.

If I have to put into context, it is a better seafood burger compared to some of the competition around (Ferris' Oyster Bar), and I would not mind coming back if I am looking for a quick snack (which is its intended audience)

It closes early, at 4:00 PM and does not open on the weekends.

Verdict: Overall, a good experience with minor glitches. Recommended for a quick snack.

Paid: 11.15

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MARINA RESTAURANT

No. 63

<2010-07-28 Wed>

A magnificent view that transforms lunch into a positive tourist experience.

As I parked at the Marina, I was surprised by the number of people looking in the same direction. A quick glance was enough to discover the reason: there was a whale watching boat, and where there are fully loaded, standing whale watching boats, there are usually whales.

I waited for few minutes, and from the distance I think I recognized the spray pattern and the movement of the water associated with the mammals. That I didn't see a dorsal fin didn't matter, as I had gained bragging rights "I saw whales at lunch time". I noticed a glimpse of two persons having their lunch inside their cars, parked right next to the ocean.

I arrived at the Marina looking like I didn't belong there: old jeans, a t-shirt, unshaven face. Fortunately this is Victoria, and there is no dress code at lunch time for any of its restaurants (at least I haven't found one). I was offered a lovely little table, with me facing the Ocean. 

The view is magnificent. It made me realize how lucky we are to live in such a beautiful place. Yes, I bitch about the boring, small Victoria, but never about its ocean and its views. As I sat there I was thinking that, if I was a tourist, I'll be very happy to come to this restaurant just for the view.

And here I was, escaping from work to feel like a tourist for 1.5 hrs. I was sitting in a nice restaurant, in a very comfortable chair, next to a table with a lovely white cloth and cutlery, and there was a magnificent view in front of me.  And this was my lunch break. I felt thankful.

The Marina prides itself as a seafood restaurant. It usually offers daily specials. I selected the pan-seared rock fish with jasmin rice. As I waited for my fish, a basket of bread arrived unexpectedly. It was beautiful. It looked like an Alessi designed one, with a thick white cloth wrapping the bread and the aerated butter. The bread was absolutely delicious. It was fresh and slightly sweet.

My fish arrived, and like everything else, the presentation was top notch. The downside is that the rockfish lacked salt, and was slightly overcooked. I am no fan of rice with seared fish. I don't find the combination interesting. The vegetables, on the other hand, were very well cooked. I am starting to relate beets with the Marina, as it is one of few places where I eat them, and I always have them served. Overall, while the plate was not bad, it was nothing memorable either. 
But it didn't matter; it was not going to spoil my afternoon.

The service was impeccable.

I finished my dish, worked for another 30 minutes and felt lucky that my lunch had being transformed into a memorable day: a lovely day, orcas, a beautiful view from a comfortable and pristine table, all combined to make my lunch much more than its food.

Verdict: The food is not up to the best view from a restaurant in Victoria/Oak Bay, but will not disappoint.

Paid: 17.92 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PUERTO VALLARTA AMIGOS

No. 64

<2010-07-29 Thu>
Finally, a real taqueria in Victoria.

Taco is a generic name as much as sandwich is. Essentially, a taco is a
tortilla (preferable corn) wrapping some food. As there are an
infinite number of types of sandwiches, there are an infinite number
of tacos (although I have never dared to try a peanut butter taco, but
some people have tacos of banana and strawberry jam in flour
tortillas).

Tacos are fast food. Most Mexicans eat their main meal at lunch time,
hence tacos are usually a later afternoon/evening snack. In fact, many
taquerias do not open until late in the afternoon. Arguable, Mexico
City is the world capital of the taco. Around one year ago, the
Guardian had an editorial listing the <a
href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/lifeandstyle/2009/sep/13/best-foods-in-the-world>"The
50 best things to eat in the world, and where to eat them</a>. It
listed "El Pastorcito"', in Mexico City as the best place to eat
tacos. I have eaten at El Pastorcito many times (I used to
live blocks away from it and I can vouch for them being some of the
best, if not the best). They open from 5-6 PM until later in the night
(2-3 AM); Tacos al Pastor are their signature dish. The meat is cooked
in a spit, like a shawarma, and sliced on demand. Your taco is filled
directly by slicing the spit loaded meat (pork), and frequently adorned with
pineapple, cilantro, onion, and equally important, salsa.

In taquerias you frequently eat standing, from a plastic plate, and
order tacos by the unit, and you order until you are full. They are a
great snack if you are hungry after a night of parting with your
friends. I have very many fond memories of eating at El Pastorcito at
1-2 AM to "end the night". Tacos are usually served in small tortillas
(two tortillas, to make sure that if one breaks, the other does not),
covered with a small coat of oil (that makes them more resistant to
moisture).

Puerto Vallarta Amigos is a taqueria, and also sells other fast food
(like tortas, which the Mexican sandwich).

I tried to find it on Tuesday, but failed. I thought it was
ocean-front (like Red Fish, Blue Fish). It is not. It is exactly in
the corner of Wharf and Yates, right next to Matisse. It is a food
truck.

Today I walked from Yates to the waterfront, and passed right in front
of them without seeing them. It was until I saw people eating what
looked like tacos, and asked them, that I realized I had missed them
by meters. (The people I asked recommended them: "they are very good").


As I approached I was greeted in Spanish by a middle aged man, clearly
from Mexican ascend. I asked him what he recommended, and without
delay replied "the tacos".

Amigos has only four options: tacos, tortas, quesadillas, and a
"combo". But each of them comes in six different flavours: chicken
fajitas, beef barbacoa, chopped pork,  potato and spinach, beans and
cheese, and soy chorizo. He suggested I try the sampler of tacos (that
included one of each). 

While my order was prepared (I was the only person), I had some time
to talk to them. They are a family from Puerto Vallarta, who have been
cooking long before they came to Canada. They were proud that the use
family recipes and try to be as faithful as possible to the original
recipes and ingredients as it is possible in Canada.

I received my tacos, with a wedge of lime, a young fellow (he is
probably the son, who was preparing the food). I was indicated where
the salsa was. 

For the taco newbie the salsa might seem unnecessary (in fact, why
have it, they might wonder, when some of the tacos are already
spicy?). But salsa is a condiment that, when properly prepared and
matched to the food, it enhances the flavours. In Mexico it is often
said that, in the quality of the salsa, you can evaluate the quality
of the taqueria. 

When I saw the salsa from "Amigos" my eyes brighten up: this is a
green salsa, made with cilantro and avocado, with hints of lime. A
type of salsa that I enjoy. I proceeded to add a good amount to each
of my tacos.

The tacos were delicious. The best was the beef barbacoa. Their beef
barbacoa (which is nothing like the barbacoa of Central Mexico) is
exquisite: the meat is nicely braised for a long time, to the point
that it is soft and tender; and the chillies and spices make it a full
package of flavour. It was followed by the potato and spinach taco,
which worked extremely well with the green salsa.  Then the soy
chorizo. I joked with them that ""soy chorizo" should be renamed
"artificial chorizo", but they didn't appreciate my humour. They
interjected that their chorizo is very real! I was honestly surprised
by the balance of the soy and the rest of the ingredients. It
worked. In Central Mexico Chorizo is typically made by combining
ground meat with chillies, spices and vinegar; the mixture is turned
into a sausage (made with the external part of the tripe) and let to
cure and dry for a while for the flavours to develop. It didn't taste
like "real" chorizo, but it was very a good dish, nonetheless.  The
chicken was ok, the pork was a bit overcooked, and I am not a fan of
bean tacos (those are the "poor" version of a taco--if you can't fill
it with anything else, at least you should have some beans to put
inside a tortilla). It was a nice contrast with the rest of the tacos,
but I would not order only bean tacos.

My lunch was perfect for the day: I was on the run, and had only 15
minutes to eat. I got my tacos in a three minutes, eat them in 7. But
more importantly, fully enjoyed them.

The only thing I missed was some eating surface where I could rest my
plate while I ate my tacos. They only have three chairs, which means
that in a busy time, you either eat standing or sit on the ground.  I
was told by the owner that most people take their orders and eat them,
on the grass across the street, next to the ocean. It was exactly
there where I found the person who pointed me to the truck.

The owner mentioned that they will have specials once a while. He
recommended for tomorrow the ceviche, Puerto Vallarta style.

Verdict: Recommended. Best tacos in town, and a solid quick and
  inexpensive snack for the middle of the day.

Paid: $6.00
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TIBETAN KITCHEN CAFE

No. 65

<2010-07-30 Fri> It was 2:30 and I was looking for a restaurant to have lunch. I
canvassed many streets trying to find a place that would still
be open (note to myself: "myself, you really need to keep a
listing of opening times").

I was walking by Douglas when I saw The Tibetan Kitchen Cafe. I
decided to try it.

Their lunch service ends at 3:00 PM. They had a big sign on the
outside advertising their specials: beef curry and chicken
butter.

I walked in and was offered to sit anywhere. As it is usual at
this time of the day, the restaurant was almost empty. My
waiter was a middle age man, very friendly, who offered me a
menu. I quickly canvased it, and noticed it was a dinner
menu. I asked about the specials, and he said, yes, there were
specials, and to go out to check them out (to see the
sign). Asked the kitchen, and informed me that, indeed, there
were specials: butter chicken and beef curry (the 
episode was a bit awkward, but he was honestly helpful the
entire time). I opted for the chicken. I was offered a choice
of brown and white rice, and selected the latter.

I have never been in a Tibetan restaurant, and hence, I didn't
have any expectation at all. I suspect that the name creates
positive goodwill on the people who pass by. Would "Lhasan"
create the same feelings than "Tibetan"?  As one would expect,
the center of the decor was a photo of the Lama.

My food arrived.  It was nicely presented. It came in four
parts: two small nans, lentil soup, curry and rice. The smells
were very inviting. I like to stop and smell the food before I
have the first bite. This was a nice combination of the smells
of the curry (is butter chicken a curry?) and the lentils. It
was very inviting. 

Eating it was a bit disappointing, though. The food lacked
seasoning. The chicken was nice and tender, but its most
flavourful part was the cilantro on top of it. I felt the same
about the soup.

The basmati, my favourite type of rice, was dry. Basmati rice
is fragrant (after all, that is what basmati means in in
sanscrit: the fragrant one). When properly cooked it is
delicious to eat, even by itself. When it is dry it loses a lot
of its appeal.

The service, however, was excellent and the price hard to
beat. Given these two factors, I am going to give it a neutral
review, hoping that this was a bad day in the kitchen. More
salt would have fixed the dishes--although the rice is more of
a problem, because it shows lack of quality control (but at
that price point, it is hard to blame them). In conclusion,
I'll try it again before I can really make up my mind.

Victoria suffers a lack of restaurants from these parts of the
world (India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Tibet) compared to many
other cuisines.  Perhaps that is one another reason why I am
inclined to give it a second chance.

Verdict: Neutral.

Paid: 7.50 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:HARBOUR VIEW CAFE

No. 66

I was shopping at The Bay when I thought, "how about having a coffee at its Cafe?"

I had never been inside it. It is huge! It probably seats around 100-120 people.

The thing that stroke me, as I walked by so many empty tables, was the magnificent view of the harbour. Victoria does not have many tall buildings, and even less, public access to their top floors. The windows of this side of the building are probably the best view anybody can get of the harbour from above.

It is a cafeteria, and was disappointed it didn't have espresso. I don't like soft drinks, so I chose a small apple juice.

Then took a table next to a big window, and enjoyed working on my laptop with a very comfortable chair and table. They have the perfect height for working on a laptop.

People come and go, but the place is so big that it feels empty. Which is also an advantage when I am working on my laptop, as I don't feel any pressure to leave.

Come for the view.

Verdict: Recommended for the magnificent view from the top floor of the Bay Centre.

Paid: 1.11

Update: It is a loss leader for the Bay. As I was leaving, I bought way more than I originally intended.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

:Aquativ, NYC

<2010-08-04 Wed>

I had to visit New York City last week. Beside my work obligations, I
had 3 goals:

- To visit the MOMA
- To visit B&H Photo
- To eat in a "good" restaurant.


I settled for Aquavit. The night before I watched a documentary on his
head chef Marcus Samuelsson, a Swede who was born in
Africa. Apparently he was responsible for transforming the restaurant
to one of the best in New York City. My Guide also recommended it in
the "Haute" category. Most important, it served lunch.

Wednesday was my day off, and the only one I had for sightseeing. I
dressed the best I could (I didn't have any "business attire") and
headed for B&H, where I spend a couple of hours, feeling like a child
in a candy store, and building my hunger.

I arrived at Aquavit around 1:00 PM. Aquavit has two restaurants: the
main dinner hall, and the bistro. I wanted to eat the dinner hall, but
I was told by the hostess I didn't look properly dressed for it. She,
however, would further enquire. A couple of minutes later, she
informed that I would not be allowed in.

Discrimination? Yes. I was wearing new blue jeans, and an informal
shirt. The people eating were in suits. I was willing to pay for the
service!

This is not the first time I have been in this situation. Few months
ago I wanted to go to one of the 2 or 3 Michelin starred restaurants
in London, but all of them (that served lunch) required a coat, which
I didn't have (I had to settle for only 1-star restaurants, of which
I'll write in the future).

Regardless of the ethics of denying entry to a service to "under
dressed" people, I wanted to eat at Aquavit, so I settled for the
bistro.

I ordered the 3 courses menu of the day; and each course had 3
different options. I selected herring with mustard, cold poached
salmon and chocolate dessert. I was particularly intrigued by what
cold poached salmon was.

As it usually happens at this level of restaurants, every byte is a
pleasant surprise. Even flavours that I know (as in this meal) felt
different. Particularly the salmon: there was a faint sweetness that
made it special. The herring was fully enjoyable too, and the
chocolate and the cookies delicious.

I was surprised that the plates didn't look like the colorful plates I
was expecting from Samuelsson. Few days later I discovered that he had
quit Aquavit few months before. Oh well ;) The food didn't disappoint
me, however.

Another thing I noticed was the quality of the service.  I was treated
well by the service staff (ok, ok, except for the denial of service),
which was prompt to serve my needs. Some details were particularly
notable: the cutlery was not only changed from plate to plate but it
was warm to avoid cooling the food; of course, the plates were warmed
too.

There was only one problem: the bread felt stale. It was a shame that
the great job the restaurant staff had done was spoiled by such simple
detail. I should have complained early, but I didn't (I waited to the
end).

Overall, I enjoyed my lunch.

Verdict: Recommended

Paid: 26.25+tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PURE VANILLA

No. 67

<2010-08-09 Mon>

I decided to have a morning coffee with LR at Pure Vanilla, in Oak
Bay.

It is hard to classify Pure Vanilla. It tries to be a bakery, a coffee
shop and a lunch restaurant. I think it excels at the first, it is
average towards ok at the second, and mediocre at the third.

We ordered a muffin, an americano and a double espresso.

The muffin was divine. It was freshly baked, and it was light
(fluffy) yet full of flavour. I would definitely return for more. 

The coffees, however, left to be desired. My espresso was ok, but LR's
americano turned as a espresso. After complaining, the barista simply
poured into another cup. I know many places (including some Starbucks)
that would do it again.


Verdict: Delicious muffin, ok coffee.

Paid: 7.50

For more information, including location, visit:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RED DRAGON BISTRA

No. 68

<2010-08-09 Tue>

Defunct

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KOTO JAPANESE RESTAURANT

No. 69

<2010-08-09 Mon>

Koto is one of the first restaurants I visited in Victoria, and, surprisingly, I haven't been there again.

If my reading of the Kanji is accurate, Koto (古都) means Ancient City, and in a way it feels that Koto honours its name.  When you enter Koto, it feels like it is in need of a renovation. The lobby area has had better times; its carpet is old and full of stains.  Its models of the food in the window (if I remember correctly, it is the only Japanese restaurant in town that does, as restaurants in Japan frequently do) have fainted colours.

I wasn't sure what to expect from it. As I have mentioned before, in this area I frequently worry if these restaurants are tourist traps or not.

Seating at Koto feels very private. Most of the seating area is composed of "booths" with very high paper walls. The sound travels, but you can't easily see who else is in the restaurant. We arrived a bit late (around 1:20) and could not tell if there were other people there.

Koto had a simple lunch special, but because I was treating MG for lunch (who was visiting from Ontario), I decided it was better to order from the menu. He gave me free reign on selecting the food, and decided to order a deluxe sushi, tempura, miso and rice.

The miso was the first to arrive, and we were highly satisfied by its dense flavour. The tempura was next and it was very hot (it was brought to our table right after it was prepared), crispy and tasty.

I find the sashimi to always be the interesting part, because it varies significantly, from restaurant to restaurant, in presentation and components. It was primarily salmon, tuna, some saba, ika, and tako. We were very happy with the quality and the flavours, and the quantities. Because we didn't order lunch specials, our final cost was more expensive than other Japanese restaurants I have tried.

Finally, we had very good and friendly service.

Verdict: A good lunch, I would definitely be eating here again.

Cost: 18.40+tip (per person)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DON MEE RESTAURANT

No. 70

<2010-08-10 Tue>

Don Mee specializes in dim sum at lunch time. During the weekends there is usually a waiting list, and depending on what time you arrive, you might have to wait for 10-20 minutes. On the weekdays, however, you can usually find an empty table.

Dim sum is composed of small portions of food, that are served from carts that travel the restaurant, visiting each table. The waitresses (they are usually women at Dim Sum) push their wares, trying to convince you that you want one. I frequently wonder if they are paid on commission. 

It can be overwhelming to be eat at a dim sum restaurant, particularly the first time. You don't know the variety of foods, and it is hard to avoid the temptation to order from the first carts, rather to wait for the "ideal" ones (the ones we would really like).

Fortunately the first to show up was the crab cakes one (photo above). MG immediately said yes (and I like them too). Almost immediately one of my favourites showed up: sticky rice. I love sticky rice, and I usually order it at Don Mee (I usually don't wait for a cart to pass by, I order it directly from the staff).

MG ordered some type of rice cakes, which I didn't find particularly interesting (photo above), then some semi-crispy rolls (which were a bit soggy--photo below).

We were almost full, and we spend the time talking, waiting for a dumpling cart to pass by. Many others did before. Finally, I got a basket of scallop dumplings, which were ok.

In order, I liked  the crab cakes the most, followed, by the sticky rice and the scallops, at the bottom the other two dishes (which I would not order again).

It is better to go to dim sum with company; otherwise 2 baskets are enough for one person, but one misses the fun of trying many more.

Interestingly, and like my experience at Honk Kong West, they have a menus written only in Japanese. In fact, we saw a group of Chinese people being served food that we could not see in the menu. I definitely need to come with a Chinese person to these restaurants.

Verdict: it can be a good lunch, but it will heavily depend on your choices (and your patience to wait for them).

Paid: 16.00 + tip (but we overate)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CASCADIA

No. 71

Coffee Review

<2010-08-10 Tue>

Cascadia is a bakery with that also serves coffee. As a coffee shop, it is very small. It has two (or maybe there are 3) tables inside, plus a couple on the sidewalk. It also has a bench on the window, where I sat to sip my coffee.

One interesting aspect of Cascadia is that they are one of the view in town that would ask me if I wanted a long or a short espresso. I consider a espresso to be short by definition, but some places make them "long" without even asking (this is particularly true of the "push a button and the coffee comes out" places.

The coffee was ok, but nothing spectacular.

A lot of customers came for a coffee to go, and judging from the interaction with the staff, they seem to be regulars. Cascadia certainly looks like the neighbourhood bakery everybody loves to have.

The main reason you come here might not be the coffee but the bake goods, which are top notch.

A bakery that sells decent coffee. I recommend you come for bread (or pastries) and get a coffee to enjoy a small break. The smell is worth it.

Verdict: Come for the baked stuff, the coffee is decent.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OGDEN POINT CAFE

<2010-08-11 Wed>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Zambris

<2010-08-11 Wed>

In my last visit to Zambris, the food was not to the standards that I am used to. Furthermore, ever since I started my quest to visit every restaurant in Victoria I have been missing eating at some my regular restaurants (Zambri's is one of them).

I like eating, and I usually get excited about eating at Zambri's. My visitor, MG, is a foodie, and I felt I was putting him enough through the paces by eating at restaurants I didn't know, thus I decided for Zambris.

I ordered rockfish. It was delicious. Perfectly cooked, the smell of the food, the sauce (the kitchen at Zambri's makes delicious sauces).

Hopefully the next visit will be equally satisfying.

Paid: approx 18  + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DOLCE VITA COFFEE ART YATES

No. 72

<2010-08-11 Wed>

I used to be come more regularly to this coffee shop. It was one of the few coffee shops that had Internet. Unfortunately the place is small, hence people with laptops would stay long hours. For this reason they instituted two policies: they covered the electrical outlets, and they disabled Internet during the lunch hours. Still, I remember a couple of guys who looked like they were running a business from the coffee shop. I would see them there daily, no matter what time of the day it was (later they moved on to Serious Coffee on Yates).

I am sure that if this irked the owners. My personal policy is that I would use a table for up to two hours, and never user the business electricity. If the place is full, I would shorten my stay to a minimum of 30 minutes.

The coffee, however, was really good. And they accompanied with a small piece of chocolate. As time passed by they expanded to the space in front of Chapter (which I'll review another time).

This time the place was 1/3 full (it was around 2 PM). I ordered, as usual, a espresso. This time I didn't recognize the barista.

The tables are a bit odd: they are too tall to be comfortable for a laptop, and their lounge chairs are very low. They also have a few tables outside, but they are right next to the London Drugs parking lot, thus you might be car-smoked by the end of your coffee.
 
My coffee was not as good as in the old days, but maybe this was an odd-day. It is certainly in the ok category (I would not mind paying for it, and drinking it). I will have to come back to reconfirm.

Verdict: A cozy place, with good coffee in an area that where there are not that many good options.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KING SEJONG RESTAURANT

No. 73

<2010-08-12 Thu>

When I reviewed <Sora> I thought it was the only Korean restaurant left in town. I was mistaken. King Sejong is the other one.

I have passed in front numerous times, and its storefront has never "called" me. It has the menu and fainted photos, but it does not look very interesting nor appealing, even though I like Korean food.

I think the main challenge with Korean food is that we have no idea what the dishes are. Yes, I know what Bibimbap is, but other than that, I always struggle to remember what the dishes names are. For example, I really like the pork bone spicy soup, but I can never remember its korean name (it is gamjatang, I think, but I had to look it up).

The restaurant is narrow and long, and has around 40 tables, with around 1/4 of them in use, significantly bigger than what I expected. It looks outdated, as if King Sejong took over a failing restaurant and decided not to change the furniture nor the decoir.

King Sejong has a long menu and lunch specials. the long menu contains many items, including some that are expected to be shared by at least two people (i.e. the soups).

I wasn't very hungry, so I opted for one of the four lunch specials: Jeyuk bupbap (fried pork with spicy sauce on rice).

The food arrived promptly. As it is customary in Korea, it included 3 side dishes (I love that of Korean food). They are called <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banchan">banchan</a>, and they are expected to be shared. They were kimchi (a staple of korean food),  shrimp flavoured (I think) tofu, and bean sprouts. My favourite was the tofu; the kimchi looked as if needed more time fermenting.

The meet was pork fried in a spicy sauce with onions, sprinkled with sesame seeds. It was very tasty. The food cooled quickly (the plates were not warmed--I can't blame them for that, at this price range) and it started to look oily.

When considering the price of my food, it was very satisfying lunch, and I would certainly eat again here.

If I had to compare it to Sura, I think King Sejong is a notch below, but it is also a notch below in price (Sura specials are 10, Sejong King 8).

Verdict: Excellent value for lunch.

Paid: 8.95 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SOLSTICE CAFE LIMITED

Coffee Review

<2010-08-12 Thu>

No. 74

I remember the days Solstice had just opened. I was very happy to see a place that felt so inviting and so comfortable open in this part of town. I became a regular.

One of my most memorable events in this coffee shop one night I was working on my laptop while sipping some coffee. It was a Thursday, if I remember correctly, and Solstice was open late allowing a "Philosopher's Cafe" to run that night. This was an eclectic group of people, with no formal organization, who would meet weekly to discuss any topic.

One night the topic was drugs. The discussion went on for a while, but then suddenly there was a commotion outside the coffee shop: there as a group of people demonstrating outside, and a news crew (from the local tv station) was there. The "leaders" of the demonstration (which was comprised of Cannabis club members and "enthusiast") asked for an "audience". A group of Representatives where allowed to join the discussion, which of course was just a bunch of people with no agenda, nor policy making power.

This event taught me a lot of what makes news in a small town like Victoria.

Back to Solstice. In the last 5 years the competition has increased tremendously. They are just few meters away from Habit, one of the best coffee shops in Victoria, and less than 1km away from a dozen coffee places.

What makes Solstice special is that it is a large place, with many comfy chairs or tables. It is a nice place to either, have a conversation, or sit and read or work (I think they have now Internet access).

Their coffee is good. MG, who was paying, wanted to have a large, 1 litre French Press (this used to be my home method, until recently, when I got a espresso), and he likes it dark.

The coffee was good, but strong. If you are in a group of people, or like a _lot_ of coffee, this is a good option.

Verdict: Ok coffee. I would recommend it as second option to Habit (my preferred destination) in the area.

Paid: 6 for large French press.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:NAR

No. 75

<2010-08-14 Sat>

Oak Bay does not have many restaurants, thus it is always an event when a new
one opens. Nar is a Turkish restaurant that opened just one block for the Oak
Bay Marina. It is located in a small house, right in front of the park.

I need to state upfront that I don't know anything about Turkish food. I have no
preconceptions, good or bad, nor I know what I am suppose to expect.

As we entered the restaurant, we were told that we had two choices: the patio or
the inside. We were warned that the patio had no service, though.

It was a warm day, and we chose to sit in the patio. It is a very pleasant one,
and relatively large. I was certainly enjoyable. I also appreciated that the
business acknowledges that the quality of service will suffer for the people
outside, thus decides not to guarantee any level of service.

We ordered (we had to do it at the counter). I chose the chicken kebab
special. The food arrived was delivered to our table though.

The portion was very large. The chicken was grilled to perfection. It was
uniformly cooked, juicy and tender, and full of flavour. It was dark meat (which
I personally prefer, but I know some people don't). I certainly enjoyed my
lunch.

Given the proximity to my work, I will be eating here regularly.

Also, the restaurant stays open during the break between lunch and dinner to
offer coffee and tea.

Verdict: A very good first visit for a new restaurant that will make me come
   back for more.

Paid: Approximately 17 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CRUMBY'S

No. 76

<2010-08-14 Sat>

As you enter Crumby's, the first thing you will notice is the colour palette of
the decor. It is bright, with saturated colours that you rarely see in
restaurants in Victoria. The second thing, is the play area for children, filled
with toys. The third, how few children there are.

Perhaps it was the time of the day, but there was only one family with their
children there. The rest of us didn't have any. Perhaps this is Oak Bay. Perhaps
it is the time of the day. Perhaps it is that it was one of the warmest days of
the year. 

I love the place. Perhaps it is because I grew up in an environment full of
these types of colours. 

In general I see few children playing, and they never bother me (their screams
or noise) although once in a while a little one comes close to me with those
enquiry eyes. Being kid friendly could be good for some (who have children and
are looking for a place to have a coffee while their children enjoy the time) or
a bad thing (for those who dislike the noise of children).

Chumby's specializes in cup cakes and coffee. I have ordered some of them in the
past, and they are too dense for my taste (this does not mean they are bad, I
don't really like cupcakes in general).

The coffee is in the good category, and a much better option than Pure Vanilla
few blocks away, with no real competition in the area.

Verdict: The best coffee in the area.


----------------------------------------------------------------------:
SEN ZUSHI


<2010-08-16 Mon>

- Unagi nigiri
- Zuwai Goni nigiri
- Hokke

20.38 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BLACK OLIVE

No. 77

<2010-08-17 Tue>

Black Olive is perhaps the best Greek Restaurant in town. 

One of the defining features of any restaurant is the type of people who frequent it. In fact, this is frequently a way we use to determine if a place is worth eating at. For instance, if a Chinese restaurant has lots of Chinese, we might think it is more "authentic" than otherwise.

I remember one trip to Paris with my best friend. He coined the following phrase: "Never go, in Paris, to a restaurant that is full of Japanese". That was the 90's, and Japanese tourists had money to spend.

I have visited approximately 100 different restaurants and coffee shops in Victoria (including the ones reviewed in this blog), and I was shocked by the type of dinners who were at Black Olive. Everybody was well dressed (many with coats and ties). It was as if I had been transported, by crossing its door, into a different city. I felt under-dressed! Of course, it was all in my mind, because, compared to <a href="/2010/08/aquavit.html">my experience in NYC</a>, this time there was no questioning of my attire.

I was sat on a nice table. It is one of the few restaurants that has a dinner-type setting, with white cloth and wine glasses, during their lunch service. It looks very professional and classy. Perhaps that is why it attracts people who are dressed up. It gives them a different experience than other eateries (such as John's Place, which is few meters away).

The menu included three specials, plus many lunch options. I decided for the lamb souvlaki.

A basket of bread arrived in a nice white cloth. The bread was accompanied with hummus (instead of the traditional butter). It was very good.

My souvlaki was ok. It came with a good salad. I good break from more traditional restaurants, but not food that gets me excited. In other words, I would not mind eating here at all, particularly on Mondays, when there are less options available (Black Olive opens on Mondays).

The services was very good.

Verdict: It has no competition when it comes to Greek Food. A good option for Mondays.



- Most people were well dressed
- Table settings more commonly found at dinner time, than lunch time
- 3 daily specials, plus the lunch options.
- Opted for the lamb slvlaki
- Good lunch, but didn't get me excited
- Paid: 15.68
- Good service
- Opens Friday

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ADRIANA'S COCINA MEXICANA

<2010-08-17 Tue>

No. 78

Adriana's is no longer open. As much as I like Mexican food, I never ate there and I was looking forward to my visit. Part of the reason is the location. Adriana's was in the periphery of downtown, out of the typical areas that I tend to frequent, and didn't open every day of the week for lunch. The few times I have tried, it was closed.

Verdict: Defunct

I will take the opportunity to write about Mexican food in Victoria.

First of all, Mexico is a very large country. To put into context, Mexico has the area (1,972,550 km2) twice the size of British Columbia (925,186 km2), and closer to the size of British Columbia, Alberta (642,317 km2) and Saskatchewan (591,670 km2) together. But perhaps more important, it is more sparsely populated. While the population of Canada is concentrated in few areas (notably along the border with the US), the population of Mexico spans all over its territory. Mexico most types of territory, including glaciers, deserts, rain forests, and has cities that dwarf Canadian ones. Like Canada, it spans from the Pacific to the Atlantic. There are dozens of <a href="http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenguas_de_M%C3%A9xico">native languages still spoken in Mexico</a>, remarkably Nahuatl (the language of the Aztecs--1.6 million people) and Mayan (.89 million).  Mexico City is a city as cosmopolitan as any of the big metropolis in the world.

In conclusion, the food in Mexico is a kaleidoscope of cooking styles, ingredients, and influences, and every region of this rich and vast country has its own unique cuisine.

With few exceptions, restaurants outside Mexico do not make justice to its food. And I can't blame them. The typical person does not know much about the real Mexico, and instead, is looking for his or her perception of what Mexican food is.  A Mexican restaurant has a difficult decision to make: do we offer authentic Mexican food? or do we offer food that our patrons will consider authentic?

So here is my list of "Mexican" Restaurants", and what I think about them. First the ones I have visited, although some of them not in a very long time. They are in no particular order:

- Cafe Mexico. It offers the Mexican experience as expected by many Canadians and Americans, and while their menu includes some typical Mexican dishes, they are below average. I stopped going there the day that I was given corn tortillas warmed in the microwave (they become cardboard in few minutes). 

- Hernande'z. Hernandez is run by a Salvarodean (Jerson) and his wife (Tamara). They are lovely people. This place gets brownie points because they make their own tortillas (I have ask them if they sell them individually, and the answer is not) and they are absolutely the best in town. I am not surprised they have stopped selling tacos to go (you can't have a taco 1/2 hr later, it would have disintegrated by then). Their salsa is also very good. I tend to order the Huarache (they call it "La", which is wrong. It is "El"), which is a central Mexico staple, but their interpretation is a bit "healthier", although it lacks some of the flavours (the Mexican ones are usually slightly passed by lard). Very good prices, and highly recommended.

- Tacos Puerto Vallarta (what I call the taco truck). In less than 1 month, it is gathering a following. Run by a family who lived in Puerto Vallart and Acapulco, they make tacos in the style of the central part of the Pacific coast. They have some misnomers in the menu (their barbacoa is not authentic barbacoa, and their chorizo is made of soy). Nonetheless, they deliver at a hard-to-beat price. I love their tomatillo, avocado and cilantro salsa. It has become a gathering point for Mexicans. As authentic as it gets in Victoria. Like Hernande'z, very good prices and highly recommended.

- Rebar. Yes, rebar. When I enter the Rebar, I feel like I am in a Mexico City restaurant. The decor, the Virgen of Guadalupe in a niche, the plastic table cloths, they all look like they belong there. There is clearly an influence of Mexico in the creation of the restaurant. Order the enchiladas de calabacitas plus a apple and pear juice (not in the menu) and it is as Mexican as it can be. I recommend it.

- Orale. It feels more like a cafeteria than a restaurant, and a bad one. The tacos feel overpriced, and made with no love. Their tacos al pastor as a misnomer (tacos al pastor are cooked on a pit, the way shawarmas are). Their tamales are small. I will review this place soon. Based on my previous experiences, it is overpriced for what they offer, and I do not recommend it.

- Santiagos. It has Mexican influence, but does not feel Mexican. <a href="http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/07/santiagos-cafe.html">I wasn't very impressed in my visit.</a>

The other places in Victoria, that I have never visited (but will soon) are:

- La Fiesta Cafe (cafeteria style)
- Delicado's (cafeteria style)

In conclusion, we lack a Mexican restaurant that at least tries to deliver cooking from Mexico that goes beyond the border.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MCDONALD'S-PANDORA

<a href="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100818_4362_macPandora.jpg">


No. 79

<2010-08-18 Wed>

When I tell people about my quest to visit every restaurant in Victoria, I frequently get asked if will go to McDonald's. After I answer affirmatively, I get ask if I every one of them.

I thought about it. I know, it is basically academic to answer one way or the other. McDonald's, as a type of food establishment, fully qualifies for my list: it offers food, and it offers a place to sit. 

What do a person who reads a review of McDonald's wants to know? I asked myself. Obviously it is not a food review; I doubt any of my readers has not eaten at least once in a McDonald's, and the brand makes a point of consistency.  If I read a review of McDonald's, what do I want to learn? I have been at McDonald's in exclusive areas of big cities, where eating there was an event, and I have been inside somber McDonald's where I would not eat.

This McDonald's is large. It occupies the corner of Pandora and Vancouver, with ample parking space. Its drive-through had a good line of cars, including a red Porche Carrera. Ok, a Carrera is no Ferrari nor Bugatti, but still, it shows you that, even people with a significant income would still choose McDonald's. No wonder they are the largest chain of burgers in the world.

I entered the place, and while large, I was surprised by how small it felt inside. The East side is dominated by a large playground. The place was relatively clean, and the patrons spanned many ages and, judging by the looks, social brackets. McDonald's is a social equalizer. While there, I overheard a conversation in which a person was trying to explain to another the requirements to qualify for subsidize housing, while outside a significantly richer driver was getting his fix. There are not that many restaurants that can boast patrons in such a wide cross section of society. 

One thing I learn during my visit is that there appears to be some stigma to eating inside the restaurant. I saw at least two cars whose drivers were parked and eating, instead of coming in. Are they afraid of being seeing at McDonald's? or do they fear its patrons? I wonder.

The line to order was long, and took me at least 5 minutes to order. In the meantime I studied the menu. I found it very difficult to digest. It pushes the specials (food, fries, drink) and makes it almost impossible to compare its price to the ones of the individual items. It is loaded with photos of the item, but it lacks consistency, or order. I was confused. I ordered (I will not review the food, it would be pointless), waited for my food, took it to my table. 

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100818_4360_macPandora.jpg">

The place was clean (not immaculate, but decently clean), and while not inviting,  I felt ok eating there (I have passed by many where I would not eat at). 

I kept observing the patrons. It was very interesting to see how different they were, in age (from children to retired people), occupation (some were clearly coming for a lunch break, others look like they were on vacation), and --as I mentioned before-- economic level (at least judging from their looks). I would see the occasional person coming in to use only the washroom, and quickly leave (something I have done myself in other cities).

People were coming in a steady stream. Business seems to be good at this location. This McDonald's open 24hrs a day, one of the few places in Victoria that does.

Verdict: If you want McDonald's, this is a good place. Good parking, and large space inside. 24hrs service.

Paid: approximately 7:50

For more information, including address, visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1310108/restaurant/McDonalds-Victoria"><img alt="McDonald's on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1310108/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>



- Continuous line of cars, even a red Porche Carrera
- People of all types, and ages
- Place was relative clean, compared to many I have visited
- The frequently "only to the bathroom"
- Food, well, you know what it is like
- Open 24 hrs a day
- Continuous line of people buying food

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OSAKA

<2010-08-18 Wed>
Dinner with cornelia and luis


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SPICE JAMMER RESTAURANT

No. 80

<2010-08-19 Thu>

Spice Jammer has one of the least inviting store fronts of any restaurant in town. It opens for lunch only two days a week (Thursday and Friday).

Its dinning room is located in the back of the building, lacks windows and it is dark. Another similar restaurant is also Indian (Curry House). I don't like it. I want to see daylight.

As I enter, the waitress (dressed with a Sari, although Caucasian looking) asked me if I wanted the buffet or the menu. I was taken by surprise, because the entrance said nothing about a buffet. I asked for the menu.

I am not keen on all-you-can-eat buffets. Unless I am starving, I find them overpriced unless I eat like a pig. I also don't like the lack of pairing between the different dishes. A good meal needs to be designed in such a way that the side dish goes well with the main food. In a buffet, we tend to mix everything without regard to what goes well with what. The only buffet I enjoy is the Oak Bay Marina's (and that is mainly because of the desserts).

The menu was primarily dinner dishes, that felt too expensive for lunch, and would have required extra rice. The menu, however, had a "Chef's Lunch Special". It was basically built from the buffet, with service. I decided to order it. The menu was printed with black print on red paper, extremely hard to see in the low light conditions of the restaurants. Spice Jammer, if you read this, I would recommend you use a lighter paper (white would work much better).

It was 1 PM and the place was almost empty. My food started to arrive. First a salad. The salad was simple, copious, and very fresh, but was not Indian at all. It was a good start. The next items were the curries (chicken and potatoes) plus two pakoras. The chicken curry was below average, and something close to what I could cook at home, and one of the pieces of chicken came from the back of the bird (more bones than meat); the potato curry was much better. Although they were cold, I really enjoyed--a lot--the pakoras.  I would say that for the price, I had a large ok lunch.

The service was excellent.

Verdict: It didn't feel very Indian, good amount of food for the money, but
   quality varies significantly across dishes.

Paid: 9.58 + tip

- It only opens Thursday and Friday for lunch.
- Main item in the menu is the buffer.
- Only one other table at 1:00
- Somber, not inviting. Too dark.
- The lunch menu is black print on red paper, hard to read
- Chef's lunch special: 2 curries plus ... which was a subset of the buffet
- Pokkoras very good
- Salad
- Everything else ok.
- But the price was very good for the amount of food I received

Paid: 9.58 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PUERTO VALLARTA AMIGOS

- Mexicans are gravitating towards it
- Specials, not even advertised
- Very good fish tacos

Paid: 9

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:WILLIE'S BAKERY

<2010-08-20 Fri>

(Coffee Review)

No. 81

Even though Willie's serves food, I don't like it. After 1:00 PM, Willie's slows down, and it becomes a better place to only come for a coffee (it is too busy in the morning and lunch time with people eating).

I don't recommend their coffee. I ranks around decent (some days better than others). If you want good coffee, go to Habit instead (on the other side of Market Square).

The main reason I come here is that I like to sit at the window, and look at the people pass by.

Verdict: I come for the view.

Paid: 2.75

I don't like their food, hence I review its coffee.

- Average towards bad
- but I enjoy the view from bench on the window
- slow in the afternoon, perfect time to enjoy people watching



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ULLA

<2010-08-20 Fri>
No. 82

(Dinner only)

Out of the 82 restaurants I have visited so far, Ulla is the first that truly wows me.

I was busy with work and I didn't have time to fix dinner. I decided to go downtown and find a place to eat. My idea was to visit a restaurant that didn't open for lunch. My first thought was Wild Saffron, but as I passed in front of it I recalled that Ulla had opened just around the corner.

As I entered Ulla, my first impression was of a bright, modern, and comfortable restaurant. I liked it (some restaurants in town should learn from them).  I was by myself, so I decided to eat at the bar.

I wasn't too hungry. Because I eat well at lunch time, I find full entrees at dinner time too big for me. I can eat out every day for lunch, but I can't at dinner time; it is just too much food. For this reason I tend to order appetizers. Another reason is that they tend to be more creative, both in content and presentation, than the entrees.

I ordered tuna tataki, and octopus. Both were delicious. In the tuna I particularly enjoyed the chanterelles, and I liked the way the avocado had been spread at the bottom of the plate as a "surface" in which the rest of the food rested. Its only defect is that some of the toasted garlic was chewy.

The octopus was sublime. It was as tender as butter and full of flavour. I could not stop eating it.

I usually don't order dessert, but I was enjoying the time, and had more work to do. I followed the bartender suggestion and ordered the chocolate cake. It was, like everything else, delicious.

In this first visit, Ulla delivered very interesting food in terms of flavours and presentation. More important, it was delicious. I can't wait to come back for more. If Ulla is consistent, and continues to deliver this level of food, it will be in my top 3 dinner destinations in town.  I wished it opened for lunch.

Verdict: We need more restaurants like Ulla.

Paid: 35.84 + tip (2 appetizers + dessert)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:JR'S INDIA CURRY HOUSE;102 506 Fort Street;Restaurant;Y;Indian

Redid it.

<2010-08-21 Sat>

- Expensive
- Changed hands in the last 3 months
- Offer buffet during the week for 12 dollars
- Very good food, subtle flavours. Very enjoyable. Lack a bit of salt for my taste


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SODA SHOPPE, THE

<2010-08-21 Sat>

No. 83

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100821_4393_shoppe.jpg">

On the East side of Government, right across the street of the Empress, The Soda Shoppe is in one of the best locations in downtown. I was surprised to learn that they are <a =href"http://your-restaurant-sucks.blogspot.com/2010/08/burned-by-old-ice-cream-bait-switch.html">no longer are a Rogers</a> outlet.

The store is divided into two sections: the ice-cream parlour, and the rest. It is a large place, with large windows offering a beautiful view of the area in front of the Empress. It was a very hot day, but I needed a coffee. In retrospective, it was the worst day of the year to come here. The Sun was blazing and I, you guess it, by the windows, under the Sun. 

I love that view. It is soothing. I makes me feel like a tourist, and enjoy the fact that people pay to come here to have a similar experience. Unfortunately the person who designed those sits never sat in them. They are the most uncomfortable in the world. Perhaps it is by design: they want tourist to keep moving. Thus a high turn-over and lots of business, who will never come back--at least not for months. The locals, the regular, can come, but the sits seem to scream "please don't stay for long". It is a shame, because I'd be willing to come for that view on a regular basis, and pay top-money for it.

Service is slow. And it is annoying to have to wait by the counter for my coffee for what feels like an eternity. They need a way to streamline that. Shoppe, if you are listening, hire a busboy, and people will love the extra pampering (I would).

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100821_4392_shoppe.jpg">

The coffee was ok but a bit bitter for my taste, but it had good thickness. The small Lindt chocolate that came with it was melting by the time I ate it, but I enjoyed it. I like the treat of a small chocolates with my coffee.

Verdict: Nice location, awful sitting, recommended with reservations. 


--dmg
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Sockeye Sushi

<2010-08-23 Mon>

No. 84

As I have mentioned before, entering a restaurant for the first place is an interesting experience, and says a lot about a place (whether intended or unintended by its management).

Time and time again, I am surprised by the storefront of a restaurant, and I am starting to believe that the entrance is not the way to judge a restaurant. For example, one of the best restaurants in Montreal, Le Club Chasse et Pêche, has no external indication that it is a restaurant, except for the crest of the restaurant next to a huge door. You cannot see anything from the outside.

The entryway of the restaurant is non-inviting, but as I entered Sockeye, my first surprise was how it tries to mimic a Japanese street, with the wooden walls, and roofs leaning towards the centre. It just looked out of place. It has some private areas, while the "patio" is centered around sushi bar.

The second surprise was the metal chopsticks, which are Korean, not Japanese. When my friend from Japan visited Vancouver, he commented on how many Japanese restaurants are actually run by Koreans. Sockeye is one of them. Looking around, I could see several signs in Korean, that confirmed it.

I was hungry, and decided to order their  expensive lunch special (which range from 8.50+ tax to 15.95).

My food came in a large place, and was beautifully presented: 3 slices of sake, 2 maguro, 1 California roll, and 4 nigiris (2 sake, 1 maguro, 1 ebi). The maguro was the star of the show. I happily enjoyed it.

As I was finishing, I was asked if I wanted complementary ice cream, and opportunity I immediately took advantage of.

The good food was complimented by good service. 

Verdict: Good good, I'd certainly come back.

Paid: 17:86


- Beautiful presentation
- 3 sake, 2 maguro
- 1 california roll
- 4 nigiris: 2 sake, 1 maguro, 1 ibi

 Maguro was the star.

I got treated to an ice cream.

Prompt service

17:86

----------------------------------------------------------------------
JJ WONTON SOUP

<2010-08-24 Tue>
No. 85

- 2 specials a day, each 8.50
- Halibut soup Szechuan
- Not very Szechuan 
- tasted more like tomato soup with a tint of sweet

Paid: 9.52 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:HERNANDE'Z

<2010-08-24 Tue>

No. 86

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100824_4403_hernandez.jpg">

Hernande'z secret to success is extremely simple: hand made tortillas, a very good salsa, and fresh ingredients. They are absolutely the best tortillas in town. I am not surprised they have stopped selling tacos to go (you can't have a taco 1/2 hr later, it would have disintegrated by then).

They have two menus: the slow and the fast, depending on how long you are willing to wait. It is unfortunate the pressure that some customers impose on the speed of preparing food in a restaurant. Some of us would prefer a richer, better cooked meal than a fast one. I think Hernande'z approach is the right one: state, upfront, that some items in the menu will take longer to prepare, and let the customer decide. When you order you get a card. It is a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loter%C3%ADa_%28board_game%29">"Loteria"</a> card, which is similar to Bingo but for kids. They will call your card when you food is ready, so you can sit and relax while waiting for your food (other places in Victoria should learn from this simple method of keeping your customers happy while waiting).

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100825_4406_hernandez.jpg">

I tend to order el Huarache (they call it "La", which is wrong. It is "El"), which is a central Mexico staple. Their version is not very authentic but I enjoy it. A true huarache has beans filling sandwiched in the "masa", not on top. This huarache is closer to a big "sope". Their interpretation is a also "healthier" (it lacks the lard that enriches the authentic ones) and has a good salad to top it. The flavour of fresh cooked corn and the salsa does to me what good comfort food should always do: brings me back memories (in this case, of my years in Mexico). I have tried other items in their menu and I have enjoyed them, but keep going back to the huarache.

I consider myself a regular.

Verdict: Very good prices, and highly recommended.


Paid: ~7.50

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:FAIRFIELD FISH AND CHIPS

<2010-08-25 Wed>

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100825_4408_fairfieldFishChips.jpg">

No. 87

It was one of those days in which I am not sure what I want to eat.  I was planning to go out for dinner and wanted a quick and light lunch. I decided to canvas the Fairfield area, starting with the Fairfield Plaza, but nothing interested me. I thought about going to Cook St, when suddenly remembered that Fairfield Fish and Chips offers lunch.

The place is tiny, but has few tables outside. Fortunately it was late, and there was plenty of space inside and outside. They had a lunch special with a piece of fish plus chips, which I ordered. The lady who took my order was the only person there.  There is no service whatsoever. Fairfield Fish and Chips is a take out place, that has some space for you to eat in-site if you so choose.

I decided to sit outside, and ask her to yell when my order was ready (they have a take out window). I usually don't like sitting outside by the road, but Fairfield is not a very busy street at that time of the day. It was very pleasant. I thought about the importance of the place when it comes to food, and how, to recommend a restaurant to a person you need to understand what type of experience they are looking for in a particular occasion. While my original constraint was to have a simple, light lunch, I truly appreciated the calm of sitting outside, enjoying a beautiful day.

My order was ready for pick up and I was surprised by how much food it was. This was not going to be light lunch. The fish was nicely cooked, but the batter is too thick for my taste, so I tend to remove pieces of it, and leave them on the plate. Later I discovered that they offer a "light battered" version, which I must try next time. This was not the light lunch I was planning, but I enjoy it nonetheless.

Yes, there will be a next time. This is an unassuming restaurant, that offers good food at hard-to-beat prices. In my opinion, Fairfield Fish and Chips is one of the best deals for lunch in Victoria. Of course the downside is that you increase your calorie intake. The world can't be perfect.



Verdict: Unbeatable benefit/price ratio, recommended.

Paid 6:72

For more information, including location, please visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1430865/restaurant/Fairfield-Fish-Chips-Victoria"><img alt="Fairfield Fish & Chips on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1430865/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LEGISLATIVE DINING ROOM 


No. 88

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100826_4410_parliament.jpg">

<2010-08-26 Thu>

This is the best kept secret of Victoria. Its slogan should be "Eat where and what your representatives eat". Is there a better exercise of democracy that this? Like Ali-Baba, you need to know how and when to utter the magic "Open, Simsim" to get in. At some point you need to exchange an identification for a badge that will make you feel important (or an alien in the building, depending on the type of person you are). You will be given a map to follow your lunch adventure, and some hints on how to unlock the secret passages.

You will pass by the tourist who are touring the building, pass by security guards who are going to keep an eye on you for the distance, but finally, you will get to the Dinning Room. 

This is a quaint restaurant, that probably hasn't change much in generations. It has the feeling of an old British restaurant. You will be assigned a table, that has been set for dinner service, and an older lady will be your server, and she will make sure you feel special.

The food is good, the prices are good too (some claim they are subsidized, but I can't attest to that). I was treated to lunch by my friend MZ, so I don't really know much my meal was, but it was in the 10-12 dollars range.

Our waitress is probably used to conversation with the frequent visitors. She told us that right there is where the MPs and their staff eat when they want to eat, and it is the same food.

Frankly, even though I enjoyed my lunch, the food is secondary. Coming here is a demonstration of the greatness of Canada. I, one of its citizen, is allowed to visit and eat at the restaurant few meters from the people who represent me. They, my representatives, see me as one of their constituents, not as a threat, and don't mind my proximity. How many governments in the world would allow this? It makes feel proud of being Canadian.

Everybody should try to have lunch here at least once. It will allow you to see the inside of our Parliament a little beyond the tours. Be a tourist for one day! Or, the next time you have visitors, give them a totally unexpected lunch treat that they will probably not forget for many years to come. I know I won't.

Verdict: A must for any British Columbian, Highly recommended.

Paid: below 15, but not sure exactly how much.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KFC-HILLSIDE

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100827_4460_kfcHillside.jpg">

No. 89
<2010-08-27 Fri>

I suspect I am not the only one who has fond memories of going, as a child, to Kentucky Fried Chicken. I used to love their mash potatoes with gravy.

While the corporate name is now KFC (some argue it is to avoid the non-so-healthy word "fried" in their name), this one still has the old "Kentucky Fried Chicken" emblazoned in the outside. As I entered, I was surprised to see that this one is really a take out place. There are some stools with around a high bench, a park bench (yes, a park bench), but no tables. The place was almost empty (it was around 1:20). It feels like this restaurant has seen much better years in the past. Today it feels run-down.

Like McDonals, I felt totally lost trying to decipher their menu. I ended ordering a 2-piece special, with salad and mash potatoes (included a drink, but converted it to water). 

The most remarkable part of my visit was the quality of service I had. The two ladies that served me are probably underpaid, had no motivation from tips, and yet they were ultra friendly, and I got excellent service from them.

I got my food, but the stools were taken, so I had to eat standing. One piece of chicken was enjoyable (leg), the other not (back of the chicken). The salad had a green radioactive glow. Both the salad and the potatoes had an artificial flavor, and didn't ate much of either one. I think the next time I am at a KFC (there is no next time at this one) I'd just order the chicken, and it will be the non-crispy version.

Verdict: Avoid

For more information, including address, please visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1527969/restaurant/KFC-Hillside-Victoria"><img alt="KFC (Hillside) on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1527969/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BLACK STILT COFFEE HOUSE

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100827_4463_blackStiltHillside.jpg">

No. 90
<2010-08-27 Fri>

I like the Black Stilt. I wished I would live closer. Their coffee is very good, their space is large, bright, inviting, and has lots of different styles of sitting to match your requirement (comfy chairs, benches, tables). It feels like a place for everybody.

Furthermore, the business seems to have a social conscience, that is demonstrated all around the store (for example, that they compost and recycle as much they can and ask you to help in the sorting).

It has very good music, and I really like their copper-topped tables. It was a pleasure to be there.

Its main downside is that you really need to live or work at walking distance. It is difficult to find parking in the area for more than few minutes (unless you are willing to pay for it).

Verdict: Recommended

- Very nice place.
- Hard to find parking
- Very good music
- A pleasure to work here
- Big space, comfy, lounge chairs, lots of tables. A place for everybody
- Coffee is good

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:REEF

<2010-08-30 Mon>

No. 91

The Reef is one of the few Caribbean restaurants we have in town
(perhaps the only one)? "Reefs" have been multiplying. According to
<a href="http://thereefrestaurant.com/locations/">their web site </a>
there are 4 locations (including Victoria).

I arrived at the Reef around 1:30 and it was almost empty (only other
person having lunch). It is a large, bright location, with plenty of
seating.

The have a lot of lunch options, and decided to settle for the West
Indian Curry (Goat). Caribbean food (and this type of curries) is
peasant food, and not meant to look pretty. 

My curry was not bad. I enjoyed it, although the rice wasn't
interesting at all. It was one of those lunches that I am satisfied
with the food and the price, but it is not exciting.

The service was very good.

Verdict: Ok food, at a good price.

Paid: 11.50 + tax

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GRINDSTONE CAFE

<2010-08-30 Mon>

No. 92

Grindstone is one of the coffee shops that I have passed by numerous times, but never got it. One of the main reasons is that I already have favourites in the area, to which I am loyal.

Located in a corner, with windows in two sides, it is a bright, decently large location. I sat by the bulletin board and it was fascinating to read all those ads. Many of them advertising events in Victoria.

The coffee was ok. I would put it at par with Union Pacific or Bean Around the World, which are its main competition.

Verdict: Ok coffee


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SURA

<2010-08-31 Tue>

I decided to visit it again, and try their Bibimbap (something I recommend people to try in a Korean restaurant).

I was disappointed. First, my bibimbap came in a plain dish, not a stone bowl as the real one is supposed to be served. This mean that the egg had to be fried in advanced, rather than cook with the heat of the bowl. The bowl was cold, and my bibimbap got cold very fast.

The rice and the vegetables were very good, but still, this is not what I was expecting.

For that reason, I no longer recommend it for lunch.

Verdict: Inconsistent; some dishes are better than others.



- Bad bibimbap. Not a stone bowl, and it was cold. Defeats the
  purpose.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:STARBUCKS COFFEE #4936 (Chinatown)

<2010-08-31 Tue>

No. 93

A Starbucks in the middle of China town (or more properly described, at the opposite corner of China block, as I prefer to call it). Not much different than many other Starbucks: the coffee tastes more less the same, it uses the same standard furniture, and, in general, provides you the same bland experience that you expect when you walk into Starbucks.

The location, though, is very nice. It has floor-to-ceiling, wall-to-wall glass windows, making it very bright and no matter where you sit, you can do people watching.

Another interesting aspect of this Starbucks is that it usually has a group of elder Chinese conversing. It is interesting that, of all the coffee shops in the area, they have chosen Starbucks.

Verdict: a comfortable and large Starbucks.




- Nice, bright area
- Large, yet tables are well spaced, some nice comfy chairs
- The front side has become a gathering place for some Chinese people
- Wonderful floor to ceiling windows


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Osaka

<2010-09-01 Wed>

I had great hope for Osaka. It is located in a restaurant that is in my way to work, its prices were good, and its food looked good.

I have come here several times (5 I think) and this restaurant suffers of one problem that plagues restaurants in Victoria: inconsistency. One day it can be great, the next it does not.

They also vary the dishes (perhaps this is experimentation) but it is annoying from the consumer point of view. For example, once a dish came in sizzling plate, the next time it didn't. If you want to make those changes, call it something else, to avoid a disappointment. Even the flavour of soy sauce changes from one time to the next.

The other problem it faces is slow service. I have been there when there is only one server on duty, and he is clearly overworked. Even though I see he is working hard, there is no way he can cover properly all the tables in the restaurant. 

Sadly, I no longer recommend it.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Discovery

No. 94

<2010-09-01 Wed>

Discovery has become one of my favourite coffee destinations. There are many reasons why.

First, it has excellent coffee, prepared by baristas that care for their trade. They usually ask me how the coffee was, something that, sadly, is not very common.

Second, I love the place. I like the reused sawing tables, and the planters made from recycled objects.

Third: I like their vinyl music collection and the request for donations.

Forth: the place is large, bright and comfy. 

Verdict: I have become a regular. Too bad they don't stay open too late. Highly recommended.





----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PAGLIACCI'S

<2010-09-02 Thu>

No. 95

In reviews, Pagliacci's is a well-liked restaurant, but I don't understand why (at least at lunch time).

In the positive side, the place is one of the most interesting to visit. Every cranny is filled with a photograph or art work that is worth looking at. No matter where you sit, you cannot stop looking around.

This is also one of the densest restaurants in town. Your table right next to another two or three. I don't mind it, and actually, I sort of like it. It makes it feel alive. No only it has lots of tables, the place is packed all the time. It is not uncommon to have to wait for a table. I was there at 1:30 and it was still full.

I ordered their Chicken Chickadee. This dish is chicken breast served
on pasta, with a soup.

The soup was lentils, and it was ok. It had the acidity common in canned tomatoes; the parmesan garnishing was a very good accent to an otherwise forgettable soup. It was accompanied with slices of focaccia. Unfortunately it was oily and very salty. I didn't enjoy it.

The chicken was served with a sauce made with shrimp and artichokes. It looked very good. As I usually do, I smelled it. And smelled it again. Something was wrong: I had to get very close to the dish to really feel any significant smell. This was odd. My brain was telling me that this had to smell, yet it barely did. Was my nose loosing it?

I started eating it and discovered that it not only lacked smell, but it lacked flavour. How in Earth, could they create a dish so rich in ingredients, and make it taste so plain? The only words I have to describe its flavour is frozen food. The chicken chickadee tasted like a frozen dinner.

The food was abundant. In terms of amount it sounded like a good deal, but it was flavourless. Why is Pagliacci's so popular beats me.

Verdict:  Lunch that tastes like frozen dinner. Avoid.

Paid: 14 dollars + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OLD TIME DELI

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100902_4575_old_time.jpg">

(Coffee Review)

<2010-09-02 Thu>

No. 96

In the middle of tourist strip (Government St), Old Time Deli is a coffee shop and deli with Internet workstations in the back.  The artwork on the walls brings me back memories of a defunct favourite---the Herald Street Cafe---where they use to hang. I wonder what the relationship is.

The place is large, but lacks "soul". It feels cold, uninviting, in a way that is hard to explain. That they play the radio on loudspeakers does not help. On the other hand, their tables are very comfortable. I sat by the window, and enjoyed watching the tourists.

They are a deli with lots of pastries, but, as I usual, I only ordered a espresso.

Surprisingly, the coffee was good. Significantly better than Starbucks, and similar to Murchie's, but I still prefer Macchiato, around the corner.

Verdict: Good coffee


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:FRIENDS, nanaimo


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DOLCE VITA, Douglas

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100904_4598_dolce_vita_douglas.jpg">

<2010-09-04 Sat>

No. 97


Between its sibling at the London Drugs plaza on Yates, they share the baristas and other staff. That day Anthony was behind the espresso machine. He is, in my opinion, one of the best baristas in town. He explains me that he spends some days in one and some in the other. I mentioned that the <a href="http://lunchinvictoria.blogspot.com/2010/08/dulce-vita-yates.html">quality of the coffee was not the same without him</a>. The coffee he prepared for me was excellent.

This Dolce Vita is huge compared to the other one. I like it, although some of the tables are not very comfortable. Even though it has good coffee, it is rarely more than 1/2 full (at least at the times I go). This surprises me and I wonder why. I suspect the reason is that it is located in the wrong side of the street. Perhaps this area is starting to suffer "coffee" saturation (Mirage and Starbucks are just meters away, and there are 4 more just one block and a half away).

Verdict: Good coffee and a pleasant environment. I am a regular.



- Anthony is back and forth between the two places. Very good coffee.
- Bright comfortable place, I am surprised how empty it is.
- Perhaps it  has to do more with the location (the other side of the street has significantly more  traffic)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BROWNS SOCIAL HOUSE

<2010-09-06 Mon>

No. 98

Like many, I have preconceptions when I see a restaurant from the outside. And these types of hip sport-bar-restaurant makes me very cautious. Furthermore, this is a franchise. Its <a href="http://brownsrestaurantgroup.com/">web site</a> seems to be more interested with convincing you to become a franchiser than getting you into the restaurant.

Brown's opened few months ago. I am not quire sure who its clientele is. Some of it is likely to be tourists, but I suspect some of Victoria's young crowd might also e regular by now.

It was a rainy day and it was late. The restaurant was almost empty, except for another table. One thing I dislike in a restaurant is TVs everywhere. A restaurant that has TVs tells me that their main customer is a group of men. Lord forbids they talk to each other about their own lives. Instead, they prefer to watch "something" and center their discussions on what is on TV. Sorry, but for me a TV is a distraction. It is like having rotating ads in front of my table the whole time I am there, and I don't like it.

The waitress was dressed in a tight dress and high heels. It is probably a job requirement, but it must be very tiring. Do some customers feel more inclined to visit a place with such dress code? I wonder.

The menu leans towards the expensive, and tries to have a west cost influence, rather than being "pub" food. I ordered the reddened halibut. I was surprised: it was very good. The fish was properly cooked, and the salad was delicious. I particularly enjoyed the salad; it liked the walnuts and feta, and its overall freshness.

The food is good but expensive. If it was 3 dollars cheaper, I would consider becoming a regular.

Verdict: Surprisingly good food, but expensive.


Paid: 19.04 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Bengal Lounge 

<2010-09-06 Mon>

Coffee

- Great place
- Pricey: espresso, latte or capuccinos are 6 dollars (a beer is 5!)
- Well worth it. One of those days to feel like a tourist in your own town
- THe tall ceilings, the fans in the ceiling, the skin of the tiger on the wall
- the fancy leather chairs
- Why put TVs, it spoils the atmosphere

Paid: 6.72 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:JR'S INDIA CURRY HOUSE

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/00907_4617_curryHouse.jpg">

<2010-09-09 Thu>

No. 99

JR's India Curry House is a small, windowless restaurant tucked in the back of a building.  It recently changed hands, and it makes all the difference. 

I visited JR's few weeks ago on a Saturday. Their menu at lunch time was their dinner menu, and it felt expensive. The food, though, was excellent. I was told that they now offered a buffet during the weekdays. 

I thought about it and decided to review the buffet. As I have written in the past, I am not a fan of buffets, but felt that their food was good enough to deserve it a try.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/00907_4619_curryHouse.jpg">

As it is becoming common, I arrived after 1:00 PM. The options were not very numerous, but were clearly divided on those that were vegetarian and those with meet.

The salad and deserts areas were almost empty.

Overall, I was satisfied with the food. Unfortunately, the food left a heavy feeling for the rest of the day (combination of the amount I ate, and the oil in the food and its spiciness).

Verdict: If you like buffets, then give it a try, the food is good.

Paid: 13.44 + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:WILD

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100907_4629_wild.jpg">

<2010-09-07 Tue>

No. 100

100, several hundreds more to go.

It still amazes me how many different food establishments Victoria has. As I keep walking its streets I keep thinking: I haven't been to that one, nor that one; that one, I don't really want to visit... 

The "honour" of being 100 landed in "Wild Coffee and Bistro", located in what used to be a Serious Coffee (which had to move half a block south on Broad).

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100907_4632_wild.jpg">

The first thing one notices when entering Wild is the decor and furniture. It wants to appear West Coast, hippie. The furniture is made of drift-wood: ugly, bulky and more important, uncomfortable.

Wild also has the distinction to be the most expensive coffee I have paid for so far: 3.08 for a double espresso. The coffee was average.

Not everything was negative. I absolutely enjoyed the music while I was there, and I enjoyed sitting by the window (floor to ceiling). 

This is, however, a very competitive area area for any coffee shop.  My personal preference is to go across the street to the Legacy Art Gallery (unfortunately it does not open Monday or Tuesdays, nor late).

Verdict: The coffee is not worth what they charge for.


Paid: 3.08.

- paid 3.08, 
- overpriced 
- the furniture sucks

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SCHEZUAN

<2010-09-08 Wed>

No. 101

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100908_1933_schezuan.jpg">

This restaurant is outside the areas I am usually at, and hence, I haven't visited in perhaps 5-6 years. A visit to a service shop in the area brought me here.

The restaurant is small (might sit 20-30 people). Many of the dinners were referring to the staff by name, which shows that they is certain level of loyalty of the customers to this restaurant. This is not surprising. By being outside of the tourist core, Szechuan's core business are regulars.

The menu is large. As I have written before, I avoid ordering the specials, and go for things that sound interesting (in their translated name). I ordered Schezuan shrimp and rice. 

The food was tasty, but lack the extra "hump" of good Chinese food. I would not mind eating hear again, but I would not go out of my way to come to this restaurant.

This area is relatively devoured of restaurants, and as such, Schezuan is a solid option.

The portion was large and I left 1/2 for my doggy bag (which became dinner).

Verdict: Not a bad option if you are in the area.

Paid: 15.04 + tax (but had 1/2 for leftovers)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GEISHA

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100909_4637_geisha.jpg">

<2010-09-09 Thu>

No. 102

I have tried to come to this restaurant for a while, but either they were closed for lunch, or closed on Mondays.  

The adverts they run in the Victoria News remind me of this restaurant. I guess they work.

I was sit by the window, a beautiful location next to the bright large window. I can't forget the great Herald Street Cafe, which I still miss. Its original floor space has been divided in two, and this restaurant sits on the left side (the bar side).

My waiter brought me a menu. The outside boasted $1 ebi nigiri (one of my least favourite types of nigiri), the waiter complemented that special with bento. 

Here I pause to emphasize a point: voice only special are a no-no in my book. I want to read, at my own pace, what a special is, and avoid misunderstandings.

The menu was ood: too many smal items (I guess that is where the "tapa" aspect comes into place.

I decided to order the bento special: brown rice with ikura and tako. 

My bento came with another one of those no-nos in my book: the dressing of the salad was in the center compartment of the bento.

This time I objected with both the sushi chef and the waiter, asking how I was supposed to pour the dressing on my salad. The answer, they explained me, is to dip the vegetable into the dressing as if it was a sauce. I don't buy it. I asked for a spoon instead.

The rice and the ikura nigiri were very enjoyable, but the tako nigiri was a notch below. The salad was mostly iceberg, with two (very tasty) small tomatoes.

The bento is not very filling and I needed more food. The salmon season had just ended with a record run of salmon sockeye and thought it would be a good option.  It did not disappoint. Neither the unagi nigiri I also ordered.

Verdict: a contrived menu with decent options but nothing that wows. Small portions means you have to order several ones.

Paid: 14.85 + tip

- Voice only specials are a no-no
- Odd menu, too many small items (I guess that is the "tapa" bar of the place
- Simple bento with brown rice (ikura + tako). _Rice and ikura, Very good_, tako ok
- Salad mostly iceberg, but fresh. I enjoyed the two little tomatoes
- Good unagi
- The special of the day was $1 ebi nigiri, something I don't really see 

5 + 2.25 + 6

14.84 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BREVE

Coffee

<2010-09-09 Thu>

No. 103

I still have memories of this not-so-memorable corner before the hotel was refurbished. The new hotel Rialto is a beautiful restoration of a old landmark of the city.

Breve sits exactly in its corner. Why it is so empty beats me. This is one of the most beautiful and classy coffee destinations in town. They serve Discovery Coffee and Bubby Roses pastries. 

I was tempted by the chocolate croissant, and order one to accompany my espresso. I was surprised when a complementary glass of soda water rounded my order. I enjoyed everything.

The place is bright and comfortable. It is small, but in two times I have been here, there are not that many others (after 2:00 in both cases). 

The only downside is that it closes at 4 PM.

Verdict: I have placed Breve as one of my favourite coffee shops in town.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:HONG KONG WEST

- Love the palce
- I ordered by showing her photos
- We got beef instead of fish
- delicious food.


The woman who owns the place (it is a family restaurant, with no employees). I ordered by showing her photos of what I wanted. She was a bit concerned about the time it takes to cook the food, but I guaranteed her that we could wait. MH nodded in approval. We were asked the level of spiciness, and agreed medium was good.

The food was as delicious as the last time, but it was less spicy. At the end of our meal I had a chance to talk to the owner. I expressed to her how much I appreciated her food, and we chat about the different offerings she has. She mentioned that a lot of her customers are not used to the spiciness of their food, but she is trying to introduce them to the flavours slowly. I, for one, want to continue to explore their food.

After two visits, I can say with confidence that Honk Kong West is my favourite Chinese restaurant in town.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DISCOVERY COFFEE OAK BAY

- Very good again
- Sawing machine tables
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MO:LÉ RESTAURANT

<2010-09-13 Mon>

No. 104

Mo:Lé is a favourite. I have eaten here a couple of times, but have not been wowed by it the way its placement in reviews would imply.

Their menu feels brunch-like, and perhaps one of the reasons it is so popular during the weekends, when you usually have to wait to get a table (Habit benefits with the overflow, for sure). 
As I write this I checked their website, and indeed, they open from 8 AM to 4 PM. Hence their menu.

I am not keen on eggs during lunch, and decided to order the curry.

As I wait for my food, I have to say that I like the restaurant. It has certain charm that is hard to describe.

My curry arrived in a very hot plate (extra points in my book) and had a wonderful and rich smell. It was a pasta on top of a bed of spinach, with yams cashews and onions. All the flavour were there.

My only complain is that it felt soggy. I wonder if this dish would taste better on rice.

The service deserves two comments: please do not "dear" me, and please, please, do not ask me if I want change, ever.

Overall, a good visit. I'll consider it specially for a breakfast.

Paid 13.50 + tip


- Curry
- Very good
- Very warm plate!
- Very rich smell
- Place is brunch/lunch, and it shows in the menu (even at lunch time)
- Over a bed of spinach
- The flavours are there: the yams, cashews, onions
- Feels soggy. I think it would work better on rice.
- Overall, a good visit

Please, two things to service:

- Don't "dear" me
and 
- Don't ask me if I need change

Paid 13.50 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Lotus Pond

<2010-09-14 Tue>

No. 105

Some restaurants have protocols that surprise me, but nothing like Lotus Pond. As I entered, I saw the buffet bar. I got a table, headed for the buffet, and went back to my table. Just to be stop on my tracks: I was supposed to weigh my plate!

Yes, this is a restaurant by weight, and I don't like it. It charges 16.50 per kilogram.

I arrived around 1:45, and the food felt cold and old. But the flavours were there. There were hints of good cooking. I haven't crammed my first plate with food, but didn't feel interested in getting another one.

Lotus pond is a vegan restaurant, one of the few (only?) in town.

Verdict: I will avoid any by-the-weight restaurant.

Paid: 7.31



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RISING STAR DELI

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100914_4669_risingStar.jpg">

<2010-09-14 Tue>

(Coffee Review)

No. 106

Do you know where the Rising Star Deli is? I bet most people don't. There is a painted star on top of the entrance, and  tables in the outside, but I could not see anywhere the name of the restaurant. It feels as if it wants to hide from unsuspecting customers. 

I was surprised to see how large the place is inside. It is a funky place, with good music. The walls are covered with interesting art that is worth glancing at. Of course it can't compare with Legacy Gallery, but that is not the purpose. The art in the walls here is more of the type you would see hanging from the walls of the artsy folk in this side of the world. Many of the artifacts are worth a look. Except for one person, it was empty (and one more sitting outside).

The coffee is not bad. Their espresso feels similar to what I get at Starbucks.

The place was calm, and it was enjoyable to sit by the window.

To go to the washroom you have to pass the kitchen. And it is a huge kitchen. I suspect they do catering for other businesses, and that business is bigger than the coffee shop/deli. The kitchen was very busy.

Rising Star is in a tough area. It is just meters away from Wild and Legacy, and in the middle of a zone that has more than 7 coffee places within a 3 blocks radius. For a coffee I'd prefer <A href="/2010/06/legacy-art-gallery-cafe_30.html">Legacy</a> or <a href="/2010/10/breve.html">Breve</a>.

Verdict: the coffee is average, but the place is pleasant.

Paid: 2.40

- A star on top of the entrance marks the place

- Pleasant surprise. A very funky place. Good music, the walls are covered with interesting art, many worth a look.

Coffee is not bad. Their espresso is a lungo, and feels close to starbucks. 

Paid: 2.40
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:WAH LAI YUEN RESTAURANT & BAKERY

<2010-09-15 Wed>

No. 107

Once in a while, I stop by at Wah Lai Yuen and buy 1/2 a duck for take out. Duck is one of their signature dishes--the other barbecued pork--something you can see from the window.

Given the size of the storefront, it is a large restaurant inside. It sits approximately 60-70 people. 

I ordered the duck wonton soup. It was a combination of duck meat and wontons. and it was very good. It was flavourful, full of wontons, with many pieces of duck, and vegetables (bok choy).

If you are picky, you might dislike the duck bones. They come with the territory and I don't mind them (for instance, I was served a piece of neck, which is primarily bone).

The service was expedite: I ordered, and in less than 5 minutes my food was in front of me. My bill appeared as I was finishing without asking. Definitely a place where you can have lunch in a pinch.

It was a pleasant surprise, and definitely a place I will come back to.

Verdict: Recommended (with reservations, see above)

Paid: I didn't write it down, but it was around 10 dollars + tip.



Very enjoyable food.

- Large inside, it can probably sit around 60-70 people.
- Simple. 
- their specialty is barbecued food: duck and pork
- I have tried their duck many times, always to go
- I ordered their duck wonton soup
  Very good. Tasty, full of wontons, with many pieces of duck, and vegetables (ask lisa what is the name)
- If you are picky, you might dislike the bones in the duck. But they come with the territory and I don't mind them (e.g. a piece of neck). 
- A very pleasant surprise, definitely a place I'd come back to.
- Service: i have read that service is slow, but in my case, it could not be more expedite. I ordered, and in less than 3 minutes my food was in front of me. my bill appeared as I wws finishing. Definitely a place when you can have lunch in a pinch.

Verdict: Recommended (with reservations, see above)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:VENETTO

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100916_4681_venetto.jpg">

No. 108

<2010-09-16 Thu>

Like it sibling <a href="/2010/10/breve.html">Breve</a>, Venetto is located inside the Rialto hotel. It is one of those places that I frequently pass in front, thinking I should try it, but always end somewhere else. In countries like China high end hotels tend to have excellent restaurants. Unfortunately, I am prejudiced to these type of restaurants in Canada: I often find them plain and boring (e.g. <a href="/2010/07/prime-steakhouse-and-lounge.html">Magnolia's Prime Steakhouse</a>).

It is a long and narrow restaurant. The front is dominated by the bar, the back by tables. I decided to sit at the bar, a bright and beautiful area.

The bartender offered me a menu. It was dirty. Here I stop for emphasis:

Restaurant: The menu is your presentation card. It tells a lot about your business, and your kitchen. When I get a dirty menu it means that the management is sloppy and pays little attention to the small details that make for a good lunch experience. If you can't have a clean menu how do I know you can have a clean kitchen?

As I perused the soiled list, my waiter served me water with a slice of cucumber. What a revelation! Such a simple addition made my water a different experience! It was delicious. This somehow balanced my mood. Although this really highlights the quality of the bartender,  not necessarily the kitchen!

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100916_4679_venetto.jpg">


Their menu feels contrived at lunch time, and decided to order the "Sliders" (small hamburgers). 

The first, blue cheese  and ring onions was very good: moist inside, dominated by the flavour of the cheese.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100916_4682_venetto.jpg">

The second was less interesting, and hence forgettable.

The third cooked differently than the other two and felt drier, but it had interesting flavours. I enjoyed it.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100916_4684_venetto.jpg">

The buns felt fresh and had a good flavour too.

The sliders feel like an appetizer (and an expensive one). I think they can be raised a notch by adding a salad. Overall, a dish I would not mind eating again. In its current incarnation does not feel like I am eating lunch. And perhaps that is the biggest weakness of Venetto: it does not feel like a lunch destination, but a bar. I suspect that Venetto is a place that can elicit good and bad reviews, depending on what your expectations are.

Verdict: As a bar, my brief experience tells me it can be great. As a restaurant, it is one of those places that I would not mind coming back, but don't plan to do so.

-----




- But on the other hand, my water came with a slice of cucumber, which was a great, small detail (I think that is bar-tendering technique, not kitchen)!
- Order sliders

- blue cheese, ring onions. Very good, tasty, moist inside, dominated by the blue cheese (very good)
- bacon was less interesting.
- third one, was cooked differently than the other two and felt drier. Fortunately the burger is small and it didn't affect the overall dish.
- overall an interesting dish that I would not mind having again.
- it feels like an appetizer and I think it can be raised a notch by having it with a salad. I know, i know, this is probably finger food for a bar, but I am here at lunch time.

And perhaps that is the biggest weakness of Venetto: it does not feel like a lunch destination, but a bar. I suspect that Venetto is a place that can elicit good and bad reviews.

Excellent service.

Verdict: interesting food, a bit expensive but I would not mind eating here again.

Paid: 16.80 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:VENETTO Coffee

<2010-09-16 Thu>

- I really don't understand why this place is empty

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BON ROUGE

- Very good

Paid 11:02

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Zambris

- Very good. Salmon


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MIRAGE COFFEE-Government

<2010-09-18 Sat>

No. 109

Coffee Review

Mirage is one of those coffee shops that keeps opening branches. Its original one is located in Blanchard, between View and Fort.

One of their main claims to fame is that they roast their own coffee (you can buy it at their coffee shops). I like their espresso. It is good coffee.

This location, however, is a bit odd. It sits around 12 people, plus 6-8 outside. In a busy day, it is hard to find a place to sit.

I do like its window bench, even though is few inches too high and somehow uncomfortable to type on a laptop. It is a good place to observe the passing tourists.

It has strong competition: <a href="/2010/08/rogers-chocolates-soda-shoppe.html">The Soda Shoppe</a>, and 2 blocks south <a href="2010/06/caffe-artigiano.html">Artigiano</a> (the best in the area), or <a href="/2010/07/macchiato.html">Macchiato</a>, my preferred destination in the area.

Verdict: Good coffee, and a nice, but small, place for people watching.

- Very good coffee
- sits few people (around 12), the bar along the window is the best place, plus around 6-8 people outside


Paid: 2.67
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PINK BICYCLE GOURMET BURGER JOINT, THE

<2010-09-20 Mon>

No. 110

Soo many people talk so highly of the Pink that I am surprised I haven't been here before.

As it opens on Monday, it already gets brownie points. It was early and i was one of the first persons to be there. It is an elegant and pleasant place, although a bit dark towards the back. The carnations light the tables.

Frequently is the nice touches that make the difference. As I sat a glass and a bottle of water were placed on my table. I appreciate that.

As its name implies, burgers are their specialty. And they have lots of options, for any palate.
I have been eating too much meat lately, thus I ordered the portabello burger. 

It was a delicious burger and salad. There was certain nuttiness in the burger, and bun was delicious, the portabello nicely grilled. A tasty salad was adorned by roasted  pecans. I wanted more.

The only blemish: please, don't ask me if I want change.

Verdict: The Pink is a great find. I am definitely a convert. Recommended.

Paid: 12.32 + tip.



By 12:15 the place was packed.


- Opens mondays
- Elegant, pleasant space, although a bit dark. The carnations light the tables up. 
- Burgers are their especialty. Lots of options for any palate 
- I have been eating too much meat lately, thus I ordered the portabello burger
- By 12:15 the place was full
- nuttines in the burger, delicious bun
- roasted pecans on the salad
- a delicious burger and salad. I wanted more.

- A great find, I am definitely converted.

But please, don't ask me if I need change. 

Paid: 12.32

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Shiki Sushi

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100921_4709_shiki.jpg">

<2010-09-21 Tue>

No. 111

I was prowling for a place to eat when I saw the restaurant. I was surprised, because I could not remember it being there. (Update: it used to be on Fort St, to next Beirut).

As I entered, I was shocked: this didn't look like a typical Victoria restaurant. It had a certain "posh" feeling. First, it is a very large place, very large. The tables are sparse, with lots of space in between that is occupied by planters. The sits are leather chairs, they are very attractive. The back of the restaurant is dark, intimate, and contrast with the bright area close to the windows.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100921_4710_shiki.jpg">

I ordered the sushi-sashimi special (the most expensive special). The soup was ok, but I was surprised when a bento arrived. First, the entry in the menu wasn't labelled as a bento, second it was small, too small--I thought--for what i was going to be charged.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100921_4711_shiki.jpg">

It included 2 hokkigai, 2 hotate, 3 maguro, 3 sake, all of them relatively small. In fact, as I looked more carefully, the one hokkigai was split right in the middle, to artificially increase the number of pieces.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100921_4713_shiki.jpg">

The rice was covered with gravy. I don't like it, and I wish they would ask before they do it.

The sushi and sashimi felt average, and were overpriced.

Verdict: Expensive, average food. Avoid.

Paid: 16.74 + tip


- wow, as I entered, this is not a victoria restaurant
- very large, lots of empty space
- ordered sushi-sashimi special
- soup ok
- surprised by how small my plate was (a bento box, not labelled as such)
- salad was primarily iceberg

- 2 pigs ears, 2 hotate, 3 maguro, 3 sake, relatively small.
- feels too expensive
- I don't like the rice with the gravy

- nice leather chairs. They are beautiful, and relatively comfortable. place is dimly lit, which makes for a strange contrast between the bright area closer to the huge windows, and the dark back.

Verdict: Expensive, average food.

Paid: 16.74 + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SAIGON NIGHT

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/temp/100922_4715_saigonNight.jpg">

<2010-09-22 Wed>

No. 112

Update. In an early version of this posting I made a mistake. I confused Saigon Night with Saigon Harbour. What follows is the correct review.

Saigon Night is located in Fort St just east of Quadra. It is a medium place with a dark decor. The restaurant was relatively empty, considering the size. Some customers were clearly regulars.

Saigon Night has the typical fare: rice and noodles dishes and pho. Unlike Pho Vy, they have few pho specials. I ordered the one with meat.

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/temp/100922_4716_saigonNight.jpg">

It was very good in all aspects: the meat was tender, the broth flavourful, I got a good portion of side vegetables, and the plate was huge.

I certainly enjoyed it.

Many would ask: how does it compare to Pho Vy. There are not many pho options at this restaurant, but I received is comparable to Pho Vy. One of my complaints about Pho Vy is that it is sometimes inconsistent. Is Saigon Night inconsistent? I don't know. I would have to visit again. On the other hand, its was significantly more expensive.

Paid: 13.44 + tip


- large place, dark decor
- As time passed by, the place started to get full
- it has its following. Several people look like regulars

- Ordered the pho with  meat. 
- Excellent in all aspects: flavourful broth, very nice and tender meet
- Huge
- Lots of sprouts

Verdict: Very good pho, 

Paid: 13.44 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TRAVELLING BEAN COFFEE Fort St

<2010-09-22 Wed>

No. 113

This is a simple and small coffee shop at the corner of Fort and Quadra. I had passed many times without being interesting in going in.

Two women who looked like Japanese  in origin were serving behind the counter. They were very friendly. It is not in one occasion that my decision to go into a restaurant has been swayed by their friendly staff. Coffee, in particular, is as much about ambiance as it is about coffee.

The tables are comfortable. It was also interesting to overhear the conversation in the next table. Middle age women were discussing the difficulties of finding good men. They didn't mind the others hearing. When three men sat in the table next they invited them to contribute to the discussion. It was, as it should be, the true spirit of the old coffee shops: where ideas were discussed.

One day I'll write a book of these coffee shop stories.

The coffee? Decent. Similar to what I'd get from Starbucks.

There are two Travelling Beans in town. The other is located in James Bay.

Verdict: Decent coffee, in a small location, with friendly staff.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KHONA

No. 114

<2010-09-23 Thu>

It is about location: In that part of town, there is no better coffee (sorry Bubby Roses fans).

Its espresso is thick and full of flavour; the way I like it.

Today, my coffee was, as usual very good. 

Verdict: This are of the city, Khona's espresso has no competition.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
SUBWAY PANDORA

No. 115

<2010-09-27 Mon>

For some inexplicable reason, whenever I need take-out I always think of Subway (I am not sure it is a good thing).

This day I was in a rush, and in that area of the city there are few options (I had already being at McDonals!) and decided to get a sub.

The location is medium sized, with plenty of tables. It was clean and inviting. It was relatively busy when I was there. As you can expect from a restaurant close to "Our Place" homeless shelter, the washrooms sport a big sign: "Only for customers".

The sandwich taste the same as any from another Subway. The franchise has done a great job of making them totally uniform. And I think I am fed up with them. Time to find an alternative. Suggestions?

Verdict: Feels like just like any other Subway.

For more information, including location, please visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1310141/restaurant/Subway-Victoria"><img alt="Subway on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1310141/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>

- Big, clean place
- Not much else
- I like their subs as fast food comes



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BLIGHTY BISTRO

No. 116

<2010-09-28 Tue>

Blighty's Bistro  is located on Oak Bay Avenue, just East of Fort.  It is in an occluded place, even as I was walking towards it, it  wasn't sure It was there. Long time ago I used to open for lunch, and just recently they decided to restart the lunch service again.

It was originally on Friday when I tried to visit. But I arrive 5 minutes before 2 and Rachelle, the owner apologized that it the kitchen had already closed. I was sadden: I mentioned to hear that I had just read on the website that their service ended at 2:00. She replied that she felt guilty and she would get me some food. I said I was ok. She offered me a free lunch the next time.

I came back the following Tuesday.

This is a relatively small, place. Elegant, is how I can describe it as I walked through the door. Nice, leather chairs, but the leather cover on the tables seems a little too much. The art on the wall works great with the rest of the decor.

Rachelle recognized me. I told her that I was going to pay nonetheless. She stood her ground and said that, if I really wanted to pay it would go to charity. I thought it was a great compromise.

At first, I was annoyed by the insects flying inside the restaurant. But without saying anything, Rachelle apologized explaining that it is the location and the time of the year. 

Rachelle works the floor at lunch time. And this is very important: she knows what is going on, and she wants the place to succeed. Hence, she takes good care of you.

The lunch menu is focused on light food: salads, sandwiches, soups (they had 2 specials of the day). I like duck (when properly cooked) and jumped at the opportunity of having a duck salad.

While I waited, I enjoyed the great smell coming from the kitchen. My salad and the duck was delicious.

The service was magnificent. This is a excellent alternative in an area that does not have many.

Verdict: Very good food. I need to visit it again to fully recommend it.

Cost: 13 + tip

For more information, including address, please visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1430066/restaurant/Blightys-Bistro-Victoria"><img alt="Blighty's Bistro on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1430066/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BRICKYARD PIZZA

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100929_4779_brick.jpg">

No. 117

<2010-09-28 Tue>

http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100929_4779_brick.jpg

There are many, many Pizzerias in town, but somehow, I never think of pizza as a meal, or even a snack. I rarely eat pizza out, so take my comments with a grain of salt.

Brickyard pizza is a pizzeria and a bar. I think its strength is to offer inexpensive food in the evenings (particularly after a night at the movies, or out drinking).

I ordered a slice of spinach pizza. It was decent for the price, but I would not go out of my way to have this for lunch.

As a location, I like it. It has a good vibe. This might come from the fact that it feels like a bar when people come to mingle with each other.

Verdict: a decent place for a late-night snack, but not a lunch destination.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MEE WAH

No. 118

<2010-09-29 Wed>

It had been at Meh Wah two or three times for lunch before. In both previous ones I was very disappointed: the emphasis had been on volume rather than quality. One of my Chinese friends likes the restaurant, but I think he is heavily influenced by the price he pays.

As my plan is to visit every restaurant in Victoria again, I had to visit it again. This time, I spent more time perusing the specials: 16 lunch specials at a hard to beat price: $6.50. Yes, 16.

I think at Meh Wah it is a matter of ordering correctly. The meals I had in the past have been huge, but they haven't been very good. 

At lunch time the customers are not Chinese, and that probably biases the menu heavily. At lunch time, every time I have been here, I see a lot of old people, and I wonder if many of them are in a day trip from one of the many retirement homes in the area. Certainly the table next to me was such a case.

This time I decided to go for duck on rice. The meal was simple, yet good. For the price, I feel I got an excellent lunch. And this is the key to a meal: the ratio cost/benefit. 

You can't expect a restaurant that serves food for 6:50 to match the one that is served by a restaurant that charges 13 dollars a dish (in fact, this was the case, when yesterday I ordered duck at Blighty's for $13 and today duck again for 6.50. If I didn't have to pay, hands down the Blighty's is a better choice. But once I pay, I would say this is a tie: Blighty's serves duck in sophisticated dish at a good price, Meh Wah serves duck in a very simple way. My choice? I would eat either one of them, depending on how the days goes.

Verdict: ample amount of food, and rock bottom prices. Quality varies across dishes.

Paid: 7.30 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DISCOVERY COFFEE OAK BAY

<2010-09-29 Wed>

Discovery, as good as usual.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:NANDOS FLAME GRILL CHICKEN

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/100930_4786_nandos.jpg">

No. 119

<2010-09-30 Thu>

Once I went in, but left without ordering. Nando's felt too much like a chain restaurant, and I felt the prices were expensive for what I could get somewhere else.

Since starting my quest, I had been in front several times, always wondering if it should be the day to review it. Every time I headed somewhere else.

This time I had a gift certificate that had one week left before its expiration date. That made my decision easier.

It is a fast-food type of restaurant that serves relatively slow food. Contradiction? Yes. They make the chicken to order.

Nando's is a South African chain. It is easy to guess its origin: the walls are covered with African artifacts.  

You order from the wall. The options are straightforward: choose the type of chicken part you like, the amount, and add sides (and there are not that many of them). They will bring the food to your table.

The prices vary from 9.49 to 13.69 plus tax.

The offer it in 4 levels of spiciness. I asked for a double leg, hot (next time I'd do medium). 

The chicken had a very rich lime, and hot pepper flavour. It was so juicy that I had to check the bone: yes, it was cooked, and it was perfectly cooked. It was delicious.

I really wanted mash with my chicken, and the option of a potato sounded too dry for me.

With regard to prices. Nando's is one of the restaurants that has a single menu for the entire day. At dinner time, its prices are cheap, at lunch time, they are average, towards expensive. You can eat in China Block for a lot less.

With regard to competition: Nando's is in a difficult location, again, just a block from China Block. But if you are looking for chicken, this is a very good destination. Just don't bring a vegetarian along. He/She will be utterly disappointed.

I received very good service too. This is particularly remarkable because it is a fast-food style restaurant.

Verdict: Unexpectedly, I liked it.

Paid: 10.63

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SAIGON HARBOUR RESTAURANT

No. 120

<2010-10-01 Fri>

Saigon Night is located in the most competitive block of town (Fort/Douglas/Blandshard/Broughton). It is within few meters from some of my favourites: Devour, the Pink Bicycle, and Pho Vy. It is no surprise I haven't visited it in a very long time.

It was 1:22 and it was full! I was in a hurry, and this took me by surprise. This is a place where I have eaten in the past and it was never this full. Finding a full restaurant is always a pleasant surprise.

It is medium sized place, with a dark decor. I perused the menu. I ordered the "Pho dac biet". I got the largest supply of sprouts of all the pho restaurants I have visited.  They were very fresh too!

The meat was good, and the broth decent. I enjoyed it.

I guess the question that I should answer is: how does its pho compare to Pho Vy's? Saigon Harbour has less pho options, its meat and broth feel a notch below Pho Vy, but its vegetables (sprouts and herbs) were more abundant and fresher.

Saigon Harbour is very similar to Saigon Night in terms of options. Saigon's pho included more tender meat, but it might have been the particular type of pho that I ordered (I am not expert in this type of food, after all). 

Paid: 10.25 + tip




The question to ask is, of course, how does it compare to Pho Vy? It is hard to say. Saigon's was more expensive than Pho Vy's. Pho Vy is at times inconsistent, and I had before worse pho than this. Is Saigon Night consistent? I don't know. I like Pho Vy's variety, but today's pho will make me come back for me. 

In conclusion, it is a toss-up between one and the other. Try both and share your experience with us. I will have to visit it again to fully recommend.

Verdict: very good pho.

Paid: 13.44 + tip





----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CRANBERRY COFFEE CUP

No. 121

<2010-10-01 Fri>


This is a beautiful small cafe. Recently opened, there are few locations in Victoria that exude love like Cranberry Coffee Cup.

I had passed by the place around one week ago, and liked it, and made a mental note to come to visit. I arrived at 3:30; they were getting ready to close the till, but were happy to accommodate me.

Cranberry lives up to its name: its decor is bright red while and black, lovely little tables with matching table cloths. It is definitely beautiful.

As I walked in, there was certainly cheerfulness in the air. It felt like a family gathering, the ones that talk highly of good vibe between the staff.

I got my coffee (a good cup of espresso) and chat with them. I learnt that this is a family run and operated business. "Mom" runs it, as one of them explained it, and the family helps.

The offer light lunch at very good prices. The place is small and cozy, and I love their bench by the window where you can people watch under the lovely sun.

Unfortunately they have one of the toughest competition next door (Relish). Food wise, Relish wins hands down. In terms of coffee, I'd choose Cranberry. Cranberry's coffee is head and shoulder above the Wildfire bakery (where I had undrinkable espresso the last time I was there).

I thought it had been open longer, but it is only 5 days old (at the time I wrote this review, Oct 1). I wish them the best of luck. 

Verdict: Good coffee. They are the type of business that I love to support.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:JOHN'S PLACE

<2010-10-04 Mon>

No. 122

John's Place is located in Pandora, few meters from Douglas. It is a local's favourite.

Lively and noisy was my first impression as soon as I stepped in. The restaurant was playing very loud music, and it was surprisingly full for 10:00 AM. John's Place is a "full day" restaurant, that offers a large breakfast menu.

John's place is a visual feast too. Like Pagliacci's, one can't stop looking at the walls. It is full of posters and photographs that cover music, sports, and entertainment. Here and there you can find photos of "John".  The center piece is a large mural of the now defunct Tiger Stadium in Detroit. Under it, the wall is peppered with photos of famous players of the Tigers. No other subject is as heavily represented. John must be Tiger fan, I reckon. There are Canadian icons too: a photo of Joe Carter running the bases after his famous home run that gave the Jays the World Series (I still remember that moment, soon after the roar in the neighbourhood caused by the play--I was living in Jay's territory at the time); a faded poster of Gretzky in his early years holding the Stanley Cup along Geoff Cournall.

The breakfast-lunch is populated with pancakes and eggs.  I ordered the "John's Special": two scrambled eggs with chorizo patties. The eggs were dry, the patties had only a faint flavour to chorizo, but a heavy one to cheap grease. It was a forgettable breakfast that makes me wonder why is this place so popular? The other two times I have eaten here I left wondering why I did. The food has always disappointed me.  The food, in my opinion, does not deserve this restaurant's popularity.  And this is a question to you, the reader. If you like John's place, would you mind to explain me why?

Verdict: Avoid

Paid: 9.24 + tip



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PLUTO'S

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/101005_6214_plutos.jpg">

<2010-10-05 Tue>



No. 123


In what looks like a converted gas station and/or car garage, it is an all-day restaurant with a southwest influence. It is located at the intersection of Cook and View.

It was very late when I walked in (2:30) and the restaurant was almost empty. I was given a menu, and told to choose my table of choice.  The tables are uncomfortable: they are too high for the height of the chairs. Pluto's has space for around 50 people. Its high ceilings and large windows make it look large and pleasant (except for the uncomfortable tables). Its decor is American Southwest. There is also a patio that might be useful during the warmer days of the year.

I ordered a "nut burger". The menu claims that they have been serving it for 22 years, so I imagine this would be dish they know how to make. 

The burger is not bad. The bottom side of the bun only had butter, and I think it will greatly benefit from having something to make it moist, since the patty is a (naturally) dry. The burger is not bad, but does not excel either. I had the same feeling about the soup. Considering the price I paid, I'd rather choose going somewhere else  (like the Pink Bicycle, that has a superior burger).

What gives Pluto's the edge is that they stay open for most of the day.

Verdict: Average food.
 
Paid: 11.70 + tip

For more information, including address, please visit:
<a href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1349020/restaurant/Plutos-Victoria"><img alt="Pluto's on Urbanspoon" src="http://www.urbanspoon.com/b/logo/1349020/minilogo.gif" style="border:none;width:104px;height:15px" /></a>


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:KIM'S VIETNAMESE RESTAURANT

<2010-10-06 Wed>

No. 124

There is something about soups and stews that makes us feel comforted. It might have to do with the belief that, when we are sick, a soup will cure us.

Seafood soups are some of my favourites, in part because they bring me back memories of my childhood. This, in my opinion, is the power of food: to take us back to places and times long gone. Our palate send a signal to our brain that reacts in an amazing way. Think about it. There have to be dishes that do that for you.

At Kim's I tend to order their "Seafood bouillabaisse" (a loose translation of a seafood soup). It is an amazing dish, full of flavours. This is a list (which is surely partial) of what I could recognize:  lemongrass, pineapple, tomatoes, celery, sprouts, basil, scallops, squid, shrimp, fish, mussels, ginger, some type of chili pepper, and I think thai basil. It is very tasty, and has to be one of my favourite "soups" at lunch time. The small version is large enough for me. It comes with noodles that you poor in.

Kim is a small-to-medium restaurant, that sits around 30-40 people, located in Johnson, between Blanshard and Pandora. Some dishes are better than others. I have been disappointed in the past.

Verdict: Some dishes are better than others. but their seafood bouillabaisse is amazing.

Paid: 12.95

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SHANGHAI CITY

<2010-10-07 Thu>

No. 125

This is a huge restaurant, in second floor of a building in China block. It probably sits around 200 persons, and at 1:30, I was the only one.  Perhaps it is the grey weather outside,

It feels as Chinese as a restaurant in Canada can be: many round tables with a lazy Susan. There is Chinese music playing softly in the background. A small water tank shows the customers that the crab is fresh. And there is the usual Chinese paraphernalia found in any Chinese restaurant in the world (including China).

The entrance advertises crab, and I was tempted to order it. Next time, when I have a little more time.

I was seated at a table next to the window.  The lunch menu is full of options: around 20, plus 2 "typical" specials (what every Westerner expects in a chinese restaurant). The full menu is also available at lunch time, but didn't look at it.

I ordered the "Shangai Style Beer Brisket Noodle Soup". It is a mouthful to pronounce. At 8.95 it is one of the most expensive lunch specials (the cheapest is 5.95, which sets a new "record" for places I have visited). I reckon that, if the name of the restaurant is Shanghai City, then a dish with the name should be a speciality.

And it is also a mouthful to eat: it is a huge bowl. Brisket is a hard meat to cook, and one the best ways to do it is to braise it.  The meat in this dish has been braised, and had a slight sweet flavour in it, which I enjoyed (but some pieces were still a bit tough). The noodles are nicely cooked, but the broth could improve with some zest. I liked the large vegetable in it (I have to look it up). I finished the bowl, and I am absolutely full. I need a walk!

Verdict, good value, but not a lunch that gets me excited. 

Paid: 10.02 + tip



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ZAMBRIS's

<2010-10-08 Fri>

The big question that was in my mind, is the new restaurant still Zambri's?

Few days ago I was talking to a person who said that she did not want to have a fancy dinner in the back of a London Drugs, thus never went to Zambri's for dinner.

The new Zambri's opened in an-almost-finished building: the Atrium. This building is a good addition to Victoria, which lacks good architecture, and its atrium lives up to the name of the building.  It seems to be destined to be a gathering place. Pig BBQ Joint was packed.  Maybe there is something in that little hole in the wall that has sprouted two people's favourites (the other being Hernande'z). Habit is getting ready to open.

The lunch service now feels like dinner. This is no longer the "family" style trattoria. It has changed dramatically, and it is now a fancy restaurant. I recognized some faces around the tables, but most of them were probably curious of the "new" restaurant. The bar is now large and it is a center of the new restaurant. Gone is the "order from the board" style. Now you have to wait for a table. Perhaps what I liked the most of the old Zambri's was the ability to greet the kitchen staff. Now that is gone. They are well beyond the prying eyes of the audience.  Throughout the years I had build a relationship with them. They knew how to cook my food, and usually asked me for my opinion. It was one of the reasons I soo much enjoyed Zambris'.

I feel like a foreigner. This is no longer the Zambri's I knew. The question is, do I like the new restaurant.

The restaurant is in a beautiful location. Its floor to ceiling walls of glass overlook the corner of Blandshard and Yates. It will be interesting to see what happens during the hot days of August (although it seems to have air conditioning). The old furniture is gone, and replaced by modern, swanky one. A computer system has replaced the old "hand-written" ticket system.

The service staff has grown considerably too. From 2, there are now around 6-7, including a metre die. Many are new to me. 

Coming by  myself, I was offered to sit at the bar. I originally declined, but decided that it was a good idea.

The menu is printed, and the big novelty is pizza. Yes, there is a pizza oven. I am not crazy about pizza, and decided to ordered the salmon.

When it arrived it, I was surprised it came with a separate salad (simple lettuce dressed in a vinagrette).  The smells of the dish were Zambri's. The olive tapenade was absolute delicious. But the salmon was dry. I mentioned this to the bartender, Brendan, who relied the info to the kitchen. I was offered a replacement. I hesitated. i don't like to be a pain. But he really pushed it and I accepted. Ok, New-Zambri's cares.

What came back was delicious, and reminded me why this has been my favourite restaurant since I came to Victoria.

I like the place, the extended hours.

It is hard to accept that the old cozy place is gone. Like many things over time, change comes whether we like it or not. Zambri's continues to serve good food, and that is, or should be, my primary concern. It is time to build a new relationship.

Verdict: Beautiful restaurant, serving excellent lunch food, but it is a different Zambri's.

Paid: 19.04 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BAGELS AT BROAD

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/101009_6250_bagelsBroad.jpg">

No. 126

<2010-10-09 Sat>

When I am downtown and want a quick sandwich, I turn to Bagels at Broad. Ok, it is not a sandwich, it is a bagel, but the objective is the same: a quick bite (my other alternatives are Hernandez and the taco truck. 

I like their California Bagel, which is essentially a vegetarian one. The bagels are good (I think they come from Mount Royal). It is not a "gourmet" dish, but very satisfying nonetheless. It is comprised primarily of artichokes, spinach and cheese.

You have to wait few minutes for the oven to do its magic, time you can invest sitting by the window looking at the people passing by.

Verdict: simple, cheap, but good fast food.


Paid: It was around 6.50, but was treated, so I didn't keep track.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OCEAN GARDEN

No. 127

Located at the corner of Government and Fisgard, I consider it the most "tourist" oriented of the restaurants in China Block.

If you ever walked by it, you will see that this place is usually full of non-Chinese. Yet, the signs are written in Chinese and English.

I wasn't sure what to expect. The place is large, clean but feels run down. Its best times are long past.

The lunch menu is massive. Items range from 7 dollars to 10. As I have learned, at Chinese restaurants I avoid the preset lunches; instead I try to find interesting dishes in the menu. Its menu, like it is frequent in Chinese restaurants, is really a bunch of "combinations": do you want rice or noodles? soft noodles or crispy noodles? do you want pork, beef, shrimp, seafood, chicken? do you want sauce X, Y or Z? It would be significantly easier to decide if the provide a "choose one of each" type of menu, rather than listing every possible combination.

I settled for "schezuan prawns on rice".

The dish is massive, full of vegetables, but too much sauce on it. It disappoints. It is messy and lacks good flavours. There is nothing special about this dish. My suggestion? there are better restaurants in the block, hence avoid, unless you are looking for a lot of cheap food.

Surprisingly, the restaurant always looks busy from the outside. Go figure.

Verdict: Avoid

Paid: 10 + tip


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
:DINASTY

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/101013_6262_dinasty.jpg">

<2010-10-13 Wed>

No. 128

Communication problems :)

Rice + crab

I have been thinking about coming this place for a while. I am very curious about their crab. The entrance says: Live Crab, limit 1.

I like crab and I don't get many opportunities to eat it at lunch time.

As the waiter approached, even before I sat I said: "I want the crab". The waiter looked startled. He asked me if I wanted <something in chinese>, to which I replied I wanted the crab special mentioned in the entrance. Another waiter had to be called, and she looked like she understood. Later came back and said that no crab was available.

No crab. Darn! I feel cheated.

I looked at the menu. It is rich with options, and less formulaic than the Ocean Garden. Had I come with somebody else I'd venture into more expensive dishes that seem made to share, like the steamed salmon. I settle for eggplant and pork belly schezuan style (I have "a thing" about Schezuan style of cooking). I suspect I was given the dinner menu because it only had one "special", and most dishes were above 12 dollars. I am ok with that. I actually prefer good food that value food.

Almost every table has a Chinese person. Its size is in the "medium" range, compared to the other Chinese restaurants in the block. The music--Chinese style--is slightly loud, making it somehow annoying.  Even though it only has windows in the front, it feels brighter than Ocean (which is in a corner). Partially it is the white cloths on the tables, which beautifully bright the place, and make the tables more elegant.

As I waited, I observed how the table next ordered. They were given a different menu than me, one with photos. I later discover that they have dimsum at lunch. I suspect that, because they don't the number of clients as Don Mee, people have to order their dim sum from the menu. It also explains why the other tables have dim sum. Ok, my mistake. I jumped the gun by ordering before I got a menu.

The dish arrived. I could hear the signs of approval of the looks of my plate from neighbouring another table. It looked and smelled wonderful. And it tasted wonderful too. The meat was tender and the eggplant was braised to perfection--soft but without falling apart.

When I think about the dish I was served yesterday (schezuan prawns on rice) and compare it to this, there is no contest. Dinasty is head and shoulders above Ocean Garden competition.  I paid more, but I was left with leftovers for dinner.

How does it compare to the other Chinese restaurants? That is a more difficult question. Suffice to say, I am already planning my dim-sum lunch visit.  And yes, I still want my crab!

The crab-bait-and-switch scam was the only thing that made me cautious of fully recommending it.

Verdict: tasteful food that feels authentic


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CAFE BLISS

No. 129

<2010-10-14 Thu>

Cafe Bliss is located in Pandora, just west of Government.

Open for breakfast and lunch, Cafe Bliss specializes in salads and soups.

This is vegetarians paradise. Cafe Bliss claims to use local and in-season produce, and to prepare everything organic and raw. Yes, no cooking allowed.

Prices range from 8 to 14 dollars, depending on the salad, or whether you want soup or not.

I am not a "salad" as lunch person, and I was feeling it was unfair to rate this restaurant based on a pizza and a soup, but I didn't feel like having a salad today. I was, however, curious on what a "raw" pizza looked like.

The space is narrow, and long. It has few tables and a long bar, where I sat. It feels inviting, and it is filled with a smell of tea brewing.

To call this dish a pizza is a misnomer. This was more like a huge cracker with a salad on top: spinach, pear, cream, cucumber, onion, nuts, what felt like an avocado-based sauce. The soup is not traditional either. It was a corn "chowder", and the corn was not cooked. The rest of the ingredients read: winter squash and cashew cream. It was very interesting.

In terms of innovation, I give it very high marks. 

I am torn in how to evaluate it. I think in terms of inventiveness and presentation, this place gets top marks. The flavours were there, but they are not the expected ones, because the food has not been cooked at high temperature. You might like them or you might not. My last concern is that, I felt it was expensive for the amount of food that I received, and there are very few options to choose from. If you like salads for lunch, this is definitely a place to come to.

If you are vegetarian, you probably know about Bliss already. If you are not, and you can enjoy a full meal made of vegetables, give it a try.

Verdict: Recommend for vegetarians, or salad "nuts", otherwise your might or might-not.

Paid: $15.68

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BON ROUGE

- Crepes
- Tasty, but chicking was overboiled/cooked
- The salad wsa primarily iceberg lettuce, but given the price, I can't complain
- Lots of bread


----------------------------------------------------------------------

<2010-10-21 Thu> Ulla

----------------------------------------------------------------------
<2010-10-21 Thu> Zambri's

Very good braised lamb, they removed the bone!
I got olives.

20.06 + tax

----------------------------------------------------------------------

<2010-10-21 Thu> AJ Organics Cafe.

no espresso, although it looks nice.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------

:TEAOPIA

No. 130

<2010-10-21 Thu>

On the north side of the Bay building, this is a tea shop that sells both the tea leaves, and by the cup.

It is hard to describe the process or ordering a cup of tea. You come to the counter and you are confronted with what they call "the Tea Wall", that features literally more than 100 bins filled with different varieties of tea.

They will try to gauge your understanding of tea and try to show you teas that you might like, giving you some background about each, opening the bins, inviting you to smell them. It is an educational experience, albeit overwhelming.

I am keen on lightly or non-roasted tea and became curious about their white teas, and ended ordering simply white tea, and ordered a cup. The cost was steep --4.20, tax included, but, if the tea is as rare as they promise, I think it is not a bad one (regular teas are priced a 2.75).

You are invited to seat---they will bring the tea to your table--- something I appreciate it.  The table next to mine was like a Tupperware party. They were having a tea tasting, discussing flavour and aromas like sommelier (apparently they were planning a tea party).

I got my tea. The cup is probably 350-400 ml. Large. The tea had, as I expected, a subtle flavour. As I expected, it was slightly sweet, but didn't have much smell (something I missed). Definitely a good cup of tea.

The place is small. it sits approximately 16 people in a combination of tables and comfy chairs.

One think that bothered me is that I didn't get to see the tea leaves. I understand the process of making tea, but I would have wanted to see what the leaves turned to after they are used. Otherwise, what guarantees me that the tea I got was the one I ordered?

I enjoyed my visit. It turns tea drinking into an experience of discovery. If you are willing to take the time to listen to their descriptions (and sales pitch), and to learn about teas, Teaopia is worth the visit. The downside is that, if you are looking for a cup of tea only, it will be an expensive one.

The obvious comparison is against Murchies. As a tea speciality shop, I feel Teaopia is better. At Murchies (the restaurant) you can order almost any tea, but there is no ability to ask about each, or get to smell them. They will not educate you (that is what the store is supposed to do, but they can't make the tea for you). On the other hand, Murchies has coffee, pastries and food (much better than Teopia). Murchies has more sitting space, and is cheaper.

Verdict: Visit  only if you are tea aficionado. 

Paid: 4.20


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PHO HOA

<2010-10-25 Mon>

No. 131

Located in the most competitive area in Victoria (Fort St, between Douglas and Blanshard), Pho Hoa is a chain Vietnamese restaurant. It is exactly across from Pho Vy, a local favorite when it comes to Pho.

It is a medium sized place, and has a look and feel very different from Pho Vy (its tables are nicely spaced and its the menu screams chain restaurant).

I ordered a #44: Pho Chin, Nam, Gau, Gan, Sach: Brisket, Flank, Tendon, Tripe & fatty flank. What a mouthful. I was slightly disappointed. The meat was dried out, and overall, felt average.

The natural comparison for this restaurant are its two Vietnamese neighbours: Pho Vy, or around the corner at Saigon Harbour. In my opinion, both places offer a better product. In terms of price, there is not much variance between the three.

There is, however, one saving point for Pho Vy. It is a place that stays open later than the others. They close at 10:00 PM, if I remember correctly, which is why I sometimes end eating there.

Verdict: there are better places around.

Paid: 8.95 


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DINASTY again

<2010-10-26 Tue>


Dim sum with Julius at ...

ok, but not wowing me.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TASTE OF REAL INDIA

<2010-10-27 Wed>

No. 132

opened for 3 weeks

I cannot stop wondered of the restaurants Taste Of Real India has replaced. The ventilation system of the Korean restaurant is still in place, as a silent reminder of its previous incarnation. I never saw the Hawaiian Barbecue restaurant opened.

- TV with Bolliwood in the front, _very_ loud, I had to ask to be moved.

- Buffet. They have a menu, but it is their dinner one. Not expensive, though. 

- Food was: rice, tandoori chicken, two curries (beef and chicken), a vegetable dish, and samosas.

- Curry was bonny, but it comes with the territory

- Papadum and nan

- potato patty filled with something: very good

- pakkoras felt "old" but that is not really a failure of the restaurant

Enjoyable.

The chicken in the curry  looked  like tandoori. i wonder if this is.

Its direct competition is clearly JR's Curry House (2 blocks away). To be fair, I would have to compare my visits closer to each other, particularly with respect to the quality  of the food. 

Overall, I would say the food is good in both places. JR's charges 50 cents less. but I felt i had more choices at Taste. Taste restaurant is also way more enjoyable (it has windows!).

I wanted to eat more food, but I decided not to. That is my fundamental problem with buffets: in an era where we are getting fat, we should think twice before going to a buffet. It is not a matter of value, but a matter of having enough restrain to be able say: I am already full and I don't need that extra plate.

Few hours later: one of the problems I face with Indian food is the "after taste". JR's food felt heavier than Taste's, thought, but my body kept reminding me for the rest of the day that I had Indian food for lunch.

Verdict: A good option for Indian food.

Paid: 13.44 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SUN WAH

<img src="http://turingmachine.org/~dmg/lunch/101027_7502_sun_wah.jpg">

No. 133

<2010-10-28 Thu>

Large, simple, yet elegant lunch menu. It list the expected specials, but it expands into many other dishes that look promising examples of the great Chinese culinary tradition. I wish I knew more about Chinese food. My curiosity is increased with these menus. I am sure the translators do not find the words to properly translate a dish.  Most dishes are below 10 dollars, and a large number are below 7.

I chose "Shredded pork and Schezuan style preserved vegetables soup". What a mouthful!

This restaurants sits approximately 60 people. During the time I was there, there was not a single Chinese customer.

The soup looked a bit disappointing. The pork had been thrown on top of the cooked noodles. Perhaps that is the way it is supposed to be done. My doubts quickly dissipated. After I blended both parts, it was a very tasty soup, with good noodles; it was salty--what else can I expect from "preserved" vegetables?. I got a good portion of pork, and many vegetables. The "preserved" ones (and I am not sure what they were) were a good flavour kick, and perhaps more important, added a level of novelty that made my food more enjoyable.

There are not many restaurants in this area. In my opinion, when standing on the corner of Cook and Pandora, the other option is Little Thai (north). Otherwise you need to walk for 8-10 minutes.

Verdict: Considering the price, and the area, this is very good food. 

Paid: 7.78 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Wendy's

<2010-10-30 Sat>

No. 134

- More upscale than MacDonals (Pandora)
- Clean large place, feels like a hotel lobby
- Ordered the spicy chicken 
- Paid 7.70 + tax

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:Serious Coffee

<2010-10-30 Sat>

- Not very appealing
- But it has an edge: it is one of the few places open downtown late.


Paid: 2.40 for a single espresso

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PENELOPE'S CAFE

<2010-11-01 Mon>

- Feels like a restaurant. the tables are set with plates and cuttlery
- They serve an ample lunch, which will make me come back to it.
- But open the entire day, they also offer coffee.
- the place is inviting, with fresh flowers on the tables, and good music.

- But I don't understand why to have a TV on.

- The coffee was horribly burnt. Horrible. One of the worst coffees I had in some time. Undrinkable.

I thought about complaining, but I wasn't in the mood.

For a coffee, Breve is a better choice, and less than 1/2 a block away. Much better coffee.


Paid: $2.24

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RELISH

<2010-11-01 Mon>

- Small, beautiful place. The kitchen is visible in the back. The brick walls are covered with art. 
- Pine tables
- Opens from 7:00, technically, also a coffee destination (and direct competition to Cranberry next door)!

- Their cooking is French influenced. They have a blackboard with options ranging from 7 to 10 dollars. I opted for the cassoulet (the most expensive one).

- This is a complex dish, and I applaud Relish for trying it. The chicken was cooked like confit (maybe it was confit), with the skin thin and crispy, yet the meat falling from the bone.

 When one takes into consideration the price paid, this was one of the best lunches I had in some time. 

The catch is to get a table. Arrive early (or late). It gets full.

Verdict: Relish is one of the new stars of the lunch scene in Victoria.  Highly Recommended.

Paid: 11.20

<2010-11-16 Tue>

It had been a long morning and I wanted a good lunch. When I was in this mood, my instinct was to turn to Zambri's. Today, however, I chose Relish. 

As I walked from Downtown, I was thinking about what my regular lunch destinations would be in the future. Two restaurants already stand out: Devour and Zambri's.  I feel Relish could complete the set. I had only been here once, and was very impressed. A second visit could solidify my opinion that this is one of the best lunch destinations in town.

I arrived at 11:20, the first for lunch service. At that time they were writing the menu on the board, and only the first option was listed: it had been decided that "pan roasted strip loin with carrot/turnip puree and green pepperncorn brandy sauce" was my lunch today. It sounds delicious, doesn't it? I like restaurants that vary their food day to day. It allows the kitchen to use what they have available: the most cost effective produce, and to be creative. I don't like to go restaurants whose kitchens get the "corporate memo" telling them what to offer any given day.

When completed, their menu had a sausage in a bun for 7 dollars + tax, and chicken confit (10 + tax).

I like this restaurant. The music is good, the place is bathed with sunlight. I like its tables, the brick walls.  There is a lack of pretentiousness that makes Relish special. It reminds me of Zambri's when it was in its old location.

It took some time go get my food (good food takes time, so it is not a complaint). It was beautiful to look at, a delight to smell. And equally important, delicious to the palate.

This is a dish that requires skill. The loin was perfectly cooked. Everything worked: the meat, the sides. It was an absolute pleasure to eat it. I wish I could extend this meal for hours. Considering what I paid, this was a bargain. I could easily see this in a dinner menu in a restaurant going for twice what I paid for it.


Verdict: For me Relish is the best lunch restaurants in town. Highly recommended.


Paid: 13.44


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RIC'S GRILL (VICTORIA) INC.;38 910 Government Street;?

<2010-11-02 Tue>

This is a franchise destination. As such, what it offers and how it does it, gets dictated primarily by the corporate office.

I have the feeling that their main clientele is tourists. It is 12:38 and Ric's is almost empty. One waitress is responsible for the entire floor.

Their menu feels expensive. Burgers range from the lows 10 to almost 20 dollars. Some dishes go above that mark. Appetizers are just below 10 dollars.

I settle for a halibut burger, with a soup (corn with chorizo). I am hungry and the combination sounds good.

While I wait I can't stop wondering how the decision of going for a dark decor is reached. It is clearly their goal. Each window has a think brown curtain that is meant to block any vestige of light.

Perhaps the goal is to mask the imperfections of the tables and the chairs. Their pealed varnish is a witness to the lack of finesse of the customers, and the lack of LTC from the administration of the restaurant. OOn the other hand the fake leather looks in much better condition, but I can't stop seeing dirt on the sides of the one in front of me. 

Rick's wants to charge top money for its food, but, at least judging by the chairs and the tables around, it does not deserve it.

I do enjoy, however, the view from above of Government St. It is an interesting street, depicting a combination of tourists, paupers, and people who work in the area. The tourist slow down, look at the storefronts. 

The food arrives. 

Soup: I am not sure what to think about it. There are remnants of corn, a good portion of chorizo. It is salty. It feels more like an onion soup.

Burger: the portion of halibut is generous. It feels like dry, frozen fish, though. The dressing has way more flavour than the fish.

This is an area that I believe is dominated, at lunch time, by bon rouge. I believe I get a better fish burger at Pescatore's.

Service: one person for the entire floor is not acceptable for a restaurant of this price. I can't blame here, she is working hard.


Verdict: Expensive menu, frozen-tasting fish, it does not inspire me to come back.

Paid: 15.68 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PIC NIC

Extra friendly staff. It makes the difference. Nice, inviting place, although small
And it is a good environment, loved the music. I liked the cardboard deer head, is that the Canadian decoration?
A book on Banksy sold me (I spent more than 1hr browsing it). This is a place I would like to come back to. 

And what about the coffee? yes, the coffee is good.

Verdict: good coffee.

----------------------------------------------------------------------



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LA FIESTA CAFE

- Green enchiladas
- not bad, but not worth 10.75 + tax

- salsa had a smockiness that I enjoyed.
- guacamole was good: it had lemon  acidity making it interesting
- nothing really special. 
- It was less than 10 dollars (tax included) than I'd consider it

Compared to the competition?

It might be the least bad.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CANOE CLUB

<2010-11-05 Fri>

- Fish and chips
- Single menu for all day, makes lunch feel expensive
- Burgers around 15; most other dishes above 20
- I ordered the fish and chips
- Noisy, and loud

Paid: 

16 + tax + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:LIBERTY CAFE

I _think_ I know coffee places in Victoria. Yet, I was surprised to
learn that Liberty has been around for a very long time, and yet, I
have never been inside. 

You can miss the modernist orange chairs in the outside (just meters
from the bus depot).

It is a large coffee shop with chairs for approximately 25-30 persons
plus the outside. But is significantly larger. The comfortable chairs
(even though they are made of plastic) plus the large windows make it
a very enjoyable place to be.

The coffee is good. I can see myself drinking it on a regular basis. 

The only competition for Liberty are the coffee shop at the Museum
and Mela but both are at a significant distance from here.

Verdict: Liberty is a good destination for a cup of coffee.

Paid: 2.02

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OYSTER BAR

A relatively new location, next to old Pescatore's

- Beautiful place.
- The menu is relatively small, but well priced
- Oysters as appetizers, fish and chips for 12-15, fish burgers from
  12 to 16
- My choice: steamed clams and oysters.
- "kitchen" is open and in the middle of the bar
- Good music

- Curry is coconut milk based, mild yet rich with flavour, and fresh ingredients
- Enjoyed it a _lot_

Let me put this into context. 1 pd of clams or mussels at Thrifties
will cost me between 8 and 10 dollars. Here, for 13 dollars, I have a
great lunch experience: location, actual place, and food. Hard to
beat.

What surprised me: I was the only person at the restaurant. This dish
deserves better!

Verdict: I want to come back and sample more of the menu

Paid: 13+ tax + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:STREET LEVEL

The smallest but cockiest coffee shop in town!

- Great coffee, great environment
- Great people

Before I got my coffee, I was given a small glass of soda water. Good
baristas know that a espresso should be served with water, and they
don't ask.

I was going to pay for my coffee and I am told "drink it, pay later,
the flavours are evaporating". 

These guys take their coffee seriously, but, they deliver. Flavourful,
sweet, nutty coffee, without the bitterness.

This is some of the best coffee in town. The only challenge is that it
is small (and doesn't even have a washroom).

But it reminds me of the Italian coffee bars, where standing is the
norm (and has economic reasons too)

Verdict: Some of the best espresso in town.

Paid: 2.50

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MIRAGE, Yates

This is one of the 3 Mirage's in town. 

My coffee was slightly burned, making the espresso, bitter. Compared
to my coffee yesterday, this is a downer.

On the other hand, the coffee has a good consistency, and good
flavour. It seems to be one of those cases in which the ingredients
are there, but the final step wastes them. Mirage roasts their own
beans.

The location is a bright and relatively large, but very few sits (3
tables inside, plus 2 benches. They have patio with 4 tables that in a
less windy (and cold) day will certainly attract people to enjoy their
coffee while there. The indoor tables, however, are not very
comfortable. I suspect a large proportion of their customers are
workers of this building who grab a coffee on their way to work.

Verdict: Good beans that could yield a better product.

Paid: 2.70

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:VIETNAM HOUSE RESTAURANT

Pho dac biet, at 8.95

A cold day, what better to eat than a good soup. Vietnamese are
usually my first thought when I need such a place.

- Very friendly staff. Good service.

- Good pho, with good, tender meat, although smallish than
  others. Even the amount of greens was smaller.

What I realize is that it is difficult to compare the phos from one
restaurant to the other. 

The question I should ask myself is, if I want pho, would I choose
this restaurant or another in its vicinity? I think the answer is
no. I think Pho Vy's provide a slightly better product at the same
price. But this pho is certainly better than Pho Hoa. 

Verdict: decent pho

Paid: 8.90 + tip
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MIRAGE Blanshard

It has been a while since the last time that I walked into a coffee
shop at 9:00. It is a different crowd, and feels busy compare to the
after-lunch times.

- Their coffee is good: thick, strong and slightly
  bitter. Significantly better compared to their Yates location,

It is in a good location. The coffee is better than Starbucks. Other
than that, Demitasse is the only other alternative.

By 10 AM it was packed! But even more surprising, this was a meeting
place. Contrary to other shops where people are by themselves, every
single table, and every single chair (except mine) had people talking to
each other. As I left, a group of people happily took over my table. I
haven't seen such as busy coffee location in a while.

--dmg

paid: 2.75


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SAM's deli

<2010-11-10 Wed>

- Good simple sandwich
- 1/2 avocado, 2 scoops of peeled baby shrimp
- 1 pickle

Good value, when you consider the view

Paid: 8.50
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SAUCE

<2010-11-11 Thu>

- Sandwiches, fish and chips, pulled thai rib sandwich. Malaysian
Chicken Rice Bowl..

- From 11:30 to 16:00

- It is a very large location, with space for perhaps 100-120 people.
- nice salad: tangerines, cranberries, pumpkin seeds, fresh vegetables. overdressed,
  but that is being picky.
- chicken very nicely cook, very moist and tender. Delicious.

- For its cost, I  recommend this dish.

Paid: 11.20 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ZAZU

<2010-11-12 Fri>

- Decent coffee. Slightly bitter for my taste
- nice, friendly staff
- Sits around 20 people
- It was empty when I arrived, but full when I left.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SUSHI PLUS

<2010-11-12 Fri>

I have read some descriptions of this restaurant as a "whole in the wall", and I think that is accurate. I have to accept that I have never been attracted to go in, even though I have passed innumerable times in front.

As I walk in, this feels like a restaurant in a large Japanese city (except that it would be too large). It has the look, the smell, and the low level lighting that reminds me of inexpensive restaurants in Osaka.

I like the regalia in the walls. 

The waitress and the cook are clearly Japanese.

The menus is fulled of specials, mostly around maki sushi. I ended ordering the "sushi on rice" plus a unagi nigiri.


Their miso is strong and full of flavour. I liked it.

- Around 2 slices of salmon, not the best part.
- slices of Tuna
- mushroom
- egg
- avocado
- 4-5 small hotate

Sushi is about ingredients, and at the prices Sushi Plus charges, you can't expect much.  My plate shows that. The slices of salmon were from the inner side of the belly (the included the white lining). It is not bad salmon, it is just that other restaurants will not serve you that. Similarly, the scallops were tiny (around 1cm in diameter). They also warn in the menu that the crab meat is imitation. 

If you are on a budget, Sushi Plus is a great chance to eat cheap sushi. At its price point, it has no competition. For the same reason, don't expect anything special.

Verdict: decent rock bottom priced sushi.

Paid: 10.13, including a unagi nigiri + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SECOND SLICE

<2010-11-13 Sat>

- Cheap: 1.75  for a lice
- Not very tasty
- Fast food feeling (what  else do you expect at that price)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GOLDEN CHOPSTICKS

<2010-11-15 Mon>

- Menu was 1/2 chinese, 1/2 thai 
- A very large menu, with lunch specials at 9.50 dollars, and 3 pages of lunch fare
- Most customers  looked like people who work in the area. It was 1/2 full.
- Soup was good: filled with vegetables
- Ample amount of food
- Eggplant was not bad. 
- It sits in this limbo of restaurants that offer decent affordable food, but nothing that makes them distinctive.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:FORT STREET CAFE

<2010-11-16 Tue>

It is very easy to miss the Fort Street Cafe. It is located in the basement, under the hobby shop. There is an iron fence hinting the existence of stairs. Little did I know that those small stairs will lead towards a huge restaurant. 

I think Cafe is a misnomer. This is more like a deli than a Cafe. For starters: its coffee is drip coffee (no espresso machine). It also offers beer. To complement them, there are sandwiches and soup.

I liked the place. The wall (around 20 to 25 meters long--I am not exaggerating) is covered with art (much of it on sale).

The tables are comfortable, there are some lounge chairs that look liked they have had a better life. 

I arrived here very early (it was 9:50), and they were clearly doing kitchen prep for the lunch service. The place was pleasant to be at. 

I enquired for their hours, and was told that they really open at 11:00, but the Wakeup Victoria has brought extra customers, so they are opening the doors earlier these days.

I liked the music, and the smell of the kitchen. The coffee was good (considering it was dripped coffee). I was told I could have the earlier coffee for free, or wait. I waited, it was worth it.

I am intrigued. I plan to come back for lunch.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SERIOUS COFFEE

<2010-11-16 Tue>

- just like any other serious coffee

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ViSTA 18

- magnificent view
- Lunch from 12 to 18
- looked too small
- Great bread
- Salmon and Halibut. Not bad

- It was like a "fast" bullabeise. The aromatics were there: onion, celery and carrot, but they had not been allowed to simmer and release their flavour. 
- The fish was properly cooked. 
- I wish I had more broth. 

Overall, I felt that the dish was expensive. 6 dollars less, I would have been happy.
I guess that is the cost of the view. I did enjoy it. Next time I will order something less expensive, in the hope of getting better value.

- Paid 20.16 + tax

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:CARGO & JAMES

Located in the Bay Centre food plaza, it is the first location I review here. I should say, I am not thrilled about it. In my view, food plazas are the wasteland of restaurants. 

Cargo & James is part of the Wake Up Victoria promotion. It is a small coffee shop that looks more like a retailer of coffee products than a cafe. They were giving away coffee (I suspect the business is not there yet). They benefit from being next to the Passport Office, but otherwise, they are tucked around a corner. They are hard to see.

Everything is take out. I don't like my coffee in a paper cup, but there no options.

I ordered a single espresso, and headed to the main area of the food court, as inside it there have just space for two tiny tables, and one was being used.

The coffee was burnt. It is a shame, because it had a very good smell, and there were still remnants of good flavour underneath the acrid flavour.

Is it the worst espresso I had in a long time? No. But its lack of sitting and use of paper cups places it as one of the least likely places I will visit to get a espresso. 

Just walk 1/2 a block in any direction for a much better coffee experience: East: Street Level, South: Macchiato, West: Artigiano, North: Dulce Vita.

- The worst espresso in town? 
- Bad barista, the under the burnt coffee one can see traces of good coffee. What a waste.
- and top it up, it is in a paper cup



Paid: 1.90

----------------------------------------------------------------------

The battle of the tacos.

Ok, the title is a misnomer. Tacos were not ask to fight.

Ever since <a href="">Puerto Vallarta Amigos</a> appeared in the food scene, I have been thinking who makes better tacos.

Ideally I should take out form 


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MURCHIE'S

<2010-11-18 Thu>

- Pleasant towards closing hours.
- But, please, no radio!


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
:COSTELLO

- Funky place
- The coffee is a lungo, and it is not bad, although I prefer a short.

Paid: 2.40
----------------------------------------------------------------------
: Pho (in china town)

<2010-11-19 Fri>


Ca ro chien gion: a fried tilapia in a ginger and garlic sauce

- Huge
- Huge bowl of rice
- 5 large shrimp were very good


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:I KYu NOODLES

<2010-11-20 Sat>

My original intention was to review Noodle box, but a line up, plus the smell of smoke put me off, particularly in day I was wearing a wool jacket .

It was 3:30, on a Saturday, and I wasn't sure if it was open. 

- Friendly staff

- The place is a throwback in time: neon lights in the ceiling making an art deco pattern. 
- A fish tank greeting customers
- Old 50's chromed chairs.
- Red carpet that shows plenty of wear
- wallpaper that will bring back memories to your gradmother

A sign in the wall says: "FRESH Noodles made on site". I don't think I am capable of distinguishing fresh from cooked, since pasta is one of the last things I will try to cook. Recently a friend of mine invited me over for dinner and "together" we prepared fresh pasta. It was too much work for too little :).

I order the noodles on hot and sour soup.

- I was expecting a Chinese type Hot & sour south asian style in a coconut milk based broth. Very tasty, but hot and sour, so not for everyone
- The noodles were good, as much as I can say, since I am no expert, and the flavours of the broth were very strong. Their consistency was very good.

- BOk shoi
- Carrot
- Lime
- sprouts
- green onion
- red pepper

At 9 dollars, it was a very enjoyable meal. I would come back for more, no question.

They also sell noodles and dumplings. I guess they really do make the noodles in place. I am curious and I'll come back to try their dumplings.

Might be the best "hole in the wall" place in this area in town.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:QV

<2010-11-20 Sat>

- Bad coffee, light and burnt, with very little smell
- This is a diner type restaurant, with lots of cold food option. I have never understood why people would want to eat cold food in seran-wrap.

This is the second time I have been here. The first was a get together. Other than a similar reason, I don't think I'll ever come back. 



Avoid.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BEAN AROUND THE WORLD

<2010-11-23 Tue>

- I didn't like the flavour of their coffee
- I was expecting more from this location.

Bean around the world is one of those institutions of the coffee scene
in Victoria. Located in China block, it is a relatively large
location, with space for perhaps 50-60 people, and it is not uncommon
to find it full.


It was a Tuesday before lunch, and business was just starting. Maybe
it is the cold that is scaring customers from stepping out to go
anywhere.

The location decor what I will call: west-cost-hippy-messy. Imagine
it: two roosters next to a dinosaur in one corner, a Chinese dragon in
another, in the middle a surfboard, and yes, there is a boat
too. There is even a drum set lying around.

These places become visual feasts. There is a wonder of discovery
while one looks around. "Bean" supports the current Blue bridge,
selling t-shirts that read "Getting up wince 1922". 

A lot of people come to study here. I frequently see people with
books. This is remarkable, in a time when most coffee shops are packed
with laptops instead (walk into Cook St Starbucks in the evening).


My coffee, unfortunately, was bad. The coffee had a bad flavour. It
wasn't undrinkable, but I just didn't like it. Venus Sofia, across the
street makes better espresso, even though they specialize on tea.

The music is good. It is very enjoyable.

Verdict: the ambiance is there, the coffee is not. You choose your
priorities.

Paid: 2.70 for a solo.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ULLA

<2010-11-23 Tue>

- Very good salmon
- they deserts are delicious

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:ILL TERRAZO

- Delicious focccacia and tapenade
- One of the best deals in town, considering the quality of food
- Very large location. Very inviting.
- The have a lunch menu, which is one of the best values in the city
- For example, their chicken special is huge. I usually split in two, eat one here, and take one home for dinner.
- Very fulfilling lunch
- the baby squid are a nicely made dish
- busy

My only complaint is that its menu does not change. It is basically the same dishes with small variations. I'd like to be surprised every day with a daily special, based on what is available and on season.

Paid: 13.44 + tip


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:The Dutch Bakery

- Uniforms in black and purple
- Feels like a trip into the past.
- Packed at lunch time: 1-0-1, 1-1-1 by the time I was done
- Inexpensive food. Deli type
- Very friendly staff
- The burger was small, but it was good and tasty, although packed with mustard
- The potato salad was good too

Paid: 7.73 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BLUE CRAB

<2010-11-27 Sat>

- I can get addicted to the view
- Lunch specials from 10 (chowder) do 24 dollars (ribs)
- I settled for a oyster poor sandwitch
- The view, the view!

Salad: beats, white-thing-japan, lettuce, tomato, raisins: delicious. Champagne raising vinagrette.

My only complain are the chairs. They are rather uncomfortable. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:AURA

<2010-11-28 Sun>
- Late: 4:30
- Very good food, fries slightly burned, but still good
- Mussels
- Nice looking bread
- Great meal for 17.92

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GRAND PACIFIC CAFE

<2010-11-28 Sun>

- Decent coffee
- Lacks ambience of any kind. feels like a cofee shop in a mall.

Paid: 244
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DEMITASSE

<2010-11-29 Mon>

- Grease spoon
- The messiest espresso.
- She turned my espresso into a mini-americano

- The coffee is not bad, though.
 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RELISH

<2010-11-29 Mon>

- roast Chicken ballontine, cold!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BROAD STREET KITCHEN

<2010-11-29 Mon>

- The largest cup for a espresso ever 
- Change of name

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:GOLDEN CITY

- good tea
- Two menus: the "specials" (English only, looked like the targets are non-chinese)
- The specials is not very interesting. 
- The place is huge. It probably sits between 200 and 300 people, but it was sparsely populated when I was there.
- I asked for the dim sum menu. Ask for the photo menu, it will help you.

- Beef brisket and tendon with daikon, 

- A lot of food.
- I was surprised when I bit on the daikon: I thought it was a potato! 
- I only ate slightly 1/2 of the food. But I have dinner.
- Good lunch, but I definitely need a partner to come to Golden City.

- 18 dollars plus tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:MacDonalds vs DQ

- DQ has more smell and flavour (it might be the sauce)
- Mc donals better decor, but darker, and claustrophofic, prefer DQ
- DQ 1.5 dollars more expensive
- Mushrooms well worth it.

----------------------------------------------------------------------=
:Foo

<2010-12-03 Fri>


- Decent food, but lacked seasoning
- don't like eating from a box
- fish was good

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SHIMAS

<2010-12-13 Mon>


Shimas is the latest entry in the Japanese restaurant scene. It
is located on the ocean side of Wharf street, just south of Yates.

The building is quite interesting. Given the topology of the area, the
street level (on Wharf) is significantly higher than the
restaurant. You walk down into it. Its ceilings are, I estimate, 10
meters high. The walls are solid rock. A huge win

- soup is cold
- salad overdressed, actually, dressing throw on top

I wonder if people ever eat their own concoctions. For example, the
sauces (that brown one that goes onto the rice) and the tempura were
served in small baking cups. The problem was that one piece of tempura
was too big to fit into the small cup. At a japanese restaurant you
don't get a knife. It becomes a predicamment

- the menu is not very exciting (for lunch time). 

The tempura was not bad, but not stellar either. It felt greasy,
although it was properly cooked.

The star was the unagi nigiri, which was what I enjoyed the most of
all my lunch.

By the time I finished lunch (1:10) I was the only person standing.

Paid: 12.30 (including a unagi nigiri)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:OYSTER BAR

Returned to hi

Mussels with Pernod cream and bacon. Very good. Served with a big
piece of bread. It is definitely becoming one of my places to eat.

I still have to try their tacos and oysters.

Paid: 14.56 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:YOKOHAMA

- Space is like cubicle farm
- It might be the place if you don't want to be seen :)
- Miso soup has a distintive flavour
- The bento does not look particularly appealing
- The salad is a big turndown: messy dressing splash on top of it
- why artificial crab in the California?
- The spicy salmon roll was better
- salmon frm the nigiri felt dry

- Food is not worth the cost.

- Verdict:  Avoid

Paid: 15.62 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------=
:LA TAQUISA

<2010-12-21 Tue>

5 tacos, 10 dollars.

From Guadalajara

- Chorizo, not bad.
- Salsa below the other two places
- Beef not as well seasoned

Browie points:Hand made tortillas:

- Rajas: mostly corn and mushrooms.

- They at least have tables. although it was a cold day :)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
:POSH


<2011-01-03 Mon>

The menu has changed from the last time I was here. They are basically
two options: teriyaki, and the "all you can eat" sukiyaki.

I was tempted by the sukiyaki, but it was late to have a big lunch. I
was intrigued though, and might come with somebody else to try (it
seems to complex for one person).

Located in the Mosaic building, the restuarant is modern looking
relatively large. I was also surprised to see many japanese having
lunch here. The music that  plays is contemporary Japanese, and the
servers are all Japanese.

I settled for a pork terikayi. 

The meal included a miso soup. It was a good soup, but it was,
unfortunately, cold. The tofu chunks were _very_ cold.

The teriyaki was decent. The meat was very good, the vegetables lack a
little bit of seasoning though. But overall, I was very satisfied with
the food I got and the priced I paid (except for the cold miso
soup). I will  try their suriyaki another day.

This was radically different from my first (and only) visit, when I
had noodles in a merge of Japanese and Italian that was quite a mess
and very disappointing.

With respect to the zone, there are not that many decent restaurants
in this area that open for lunch: Ceylon Cafe,  Sen Zushi, Avalon,
Pluto's and Sally Bun. Posh is an option.

Verdict: A decent option for the area.

Paid: 8.94 + top


----------------------------------------------------------------------
:SALLY BUN

Coffee is bitter and slightly burnt.

Ambiance is good, but place is small.


Paid: 2.48



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:PRIMA STRADA, Cook St

<2011-01-04 Tue>


Started with good service: my table was woobly and my waitress
promptly resolved the problem.

The menu is, you guessed it, pizzas. They range from 10.5 to 15
dollars, and run daily specials. I ordered a "Diabolo" pizza.

I was surprised to find the place relatively empty. I guess the
end-of-the-year celebrations took their toll on the desire of eating
out. 

I like the location, even though it feels a little  bit dark; perhaps
this is because I am just next to the main window. The restaurant sits
approximately 60 people, including some booths in the back and few
chairs at the bar.

My pizza was large, around 35-40cm in diameter. It is thin crust. I
enjoyed very much, but after 4 slices, it was too much.

I think a combination of a salad or antipasto and the pizza would be a
better choice, hence I believe eating lunch at Prism Strada is better
when it is shared.

Paid: 16 + tip.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:DRAGON...

<2011-01-07 Fri>

- Oak Bay and Fort
- Mostly older people
- Menu that seems to cater to a white customer (hamburguers?)
- Area dead of restaurants!

- Warm in the outside, cold in the inside: cooked frozen!
- Bad flavour

- No wonder no chinese

- Special beef burger?

- AVOID

-------
:HONK KONG WEST

<2011-01-07 Fri>

After my experience at Dragon..., I had to eat!

Schezuan shrimp Noodle  soup

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TIBETIAN KITCHEN

<2011-02-15 Tue>

Peace, Wisdom, Love, Happiness, Courage, Tranquility, read the small
banners on above the cashier counter at The Tibetian Kitchen.

I see the dishes being delivered to the next table and makes me
hungry--to be honest, I am already hungry. They look and smell good,
and the portions are large. They nod with approval when the waitress
asked them how the food is.

I was at the Tibetian Kitchen few months ago, and was undecided on
whether I liked it or not. The comments left by some readers confirmed
that I should visit this restaurant again.

It is a Tuesday, around 1:00 PM, and there are 5 more people dining
here. I wonder how full dinner service is.

The waitress is certainly friendly. This is always a plus. She
explains me that there are several specials, and, without looking at
the menu, decide to the red snapper curry, with white rice (you get
the option).

My food arrives. I get also a little bit of pickle as a side. It looks
good.

Unfortunately the first bite is disappointing. The fish is so dry it
has the texture of salted cod. It must have been cooked day (or days)
before and left to dry. A shame. I liked the curry, though.  The soup
is tasty although a bit cold. Overall, a decent lunch, but it could
have been better. Old cooked fish is unfortunately a bad sign of a
kitchen that takes some shortcuts, and spoils the lunch. Would other
meats be more satisfying?  Perhaps. 

Would I come back? I ask myself. The service has been great, the
restaurant is inviting (at least by the windows), but the food seems
to be a roulette. 


Verdict: Decent food at a decent price.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:THE BEAGLE

Usually the choice of a restaurant is driven by its location, its
looks or the type of food they serve. Other times it is because of the
"services" they provide. Today is a case in point.

I rarely watch sports; but once in a while, an event is so alluring
that I can't resist the temptation. Today Barcelona visits Arsernal in
the first leg of their encounter within the Champions League. 

Every area of the city has to have its pub, and The Beagle fulfils
that service for the  Cook St Village. It is medium sized, clearly
more about drinking than food. It has the billiards-table du-rigour,
and space for approximately 150-200 people. But much more in standing
room on a Friday night.

I have been having a craving for a hamburger. The Beagle has many
options: venison, beef, bison, chicken, halibut. I settled for the
latter, with a soup. 

The plate arrives. The burger is a disappointment. It tastes (or I
should say, it lacks taste) like frozen fish. Even though it is
supposed to be have a cajun seasoning, it lacks flavour. The soup is a
mess of vegetables. Its saving grace is its large amount of
vegetables.

The burger wasn't worth the 15.62 I paid for, but the game was.


Verdict: come for the beer, not the food.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:RATHSKELLER

<2011-02-17 Thu>

In the culinary world, there is rarely a mention of German food. It no
surprise, therefore, that Victoria only has one: the Rathskeller.

According to the Wikipedia, a <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratskeller">Rathskeller</a> is a
type of underground bar (keller->celler).

Inside it looks as authentic a German restaurant can be: wood panels
covering the walls with beer mugs and bottles on the shelves above the
windows. German music sounding through old speakers. I have been in
restaurants in Switzerland that look like this one, so I presume they
exist in Germany too.

The restaurant is not busy. Only 3 tables (mine included) are being
used. A nice old lady offers me two menus: the lunch and dinner. I can
order from either one. I peruse both. I presume the dinner orders are
significantly bigger, and decide to stick with the lunch one. The
usual offerings are there: sausages and schnitzel, in different
variations. I opt for the Cordon Blue one, with potato pancakes (I
wonder is that is the Swiss style rosti).

I starts with a small salad. The salad is not bad but feels like one I
can buy at the supermarket: lettuce, carrots and purple cabbage with a
salad dressing that feels, too, as if it comes from a supermarket
bottle.

As I eat it, I look at the other patrons. I am by far the youngest
customer here.

My main dish arrives. I have to say that it is the least visually
appealing dish I have eaten in a very long time. It is not bad, it
fulfils its purpose. Under that brown color, the schnitzel is actually
quite tasty, and tender (I am told that it is made of pork
tenderloin). The rosti and the apple sauce go well together.  Overall,
it feels like I am having a family dinner, where looks are never a
concern, but food is satisfying and filling. Barring the salad, and
considering the price I paid, I am happy with my lunch.

Verdict: Decent German food at good prices. 

Website: <a href="http://www.rathskeller.ca/>http://www.rathskeller.ca/</a>

Paid: 10.02 + tip

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:TRE FANTASTICO Humbolt

<2011-02-18 Fri>

I have heard many good things about Cafe Fantastico over the years,
but surprisingly, I have never visited one. The snub wasn't
planned. It is just that I don't like their Cook St location (it is
not a place to linger) and I they don't have locations in the areas of
the city I frequent. 

Parkside Victoria Resort XXX


This new cafe is good news. It is open until late (10 PM) from Wed to
Saturday. There are very few in this area that dare to do it. Mela, 1
block away, closes at 4:30 every day.

Is the coffee good? It is excellent. And the service amazing. I was
asked if I wanted a small glass of soda water to go with my espresso,
which came with a small chocolate. 

My only concern is that it is a small space (it might rank third in the
city, behind Street Level and Mela). If it becomes popular, well,
there will be no place to sit. ;) On the other hand, I like its
coziness.

Obviously its main competition is Mela, but both caters to different
community. Coffee wise there is not much difference between both, but
Mela is more a Tea-type destination (think the Empress), while
Fantatico feels like a coffee shop (think Westcoat).

Verdict: highly recommended

----------------------------------------------------------------------
:VENUS SOFIA

Feb 20 13:06:03 iodine autossh[2433]: timeout polling to accept read connection
Feb 20 13:06:03 iodine autossh[2433]: port down, restarting ssh
Feb 20 13:06:03 iodine autossh[2433]: starting ssh (count 14)
Feb 20 13:06:03 iodine autossh[2433]: ssh child pid is 28738
Feb 20 14:12:40 iodine kernel: [185781.166704] EXT4-fs (sda1): re-mounted. Opts: errors=remount-ro,commit=0

- Kicked out after 1:10 minutes.

- They don't like computers. They said they had made an "exception".

- I wore my headphones.

- Arrived, took two sits in the couch area. Around 30-40 minutes later
  they inform us they have an event at 3:00 and would appreciate if we
  move to a different area.

- But around 10 minutes later the ask to move to a different area.


- Eventually, we are told they have tea and their customers will start
  arriving.

I was surprised, because when we arrived the place was empty (only one
person was there) and by the time we left only 35% of it was full.

I was curious an confronted the owner asking her why have been
booted. She explains that they don't like Internet users (they don't
provide Internet, so it really means laptop users) because it is not a
cafe, but a tea place. 

I understand. They were preparing to have live music, and we had only
consumed two coffees during our stay. I guess 



Fair enough. I'll take my laptop, and my business, somewhere else.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

